Hayley and Lachlan Webb are siblings who suffer from a rare genetic disease called Fatal Familial Insomnia (FFI).  This genetic disease is extremely rare - it is rarer than a 1 in 10 million occurrence. All who have the genetic disorder will die from it eventually. Fatal Familial Insomnia is inherited at birth, and at any time in a person's life it can trigger. It acts as a ticking time bomb which can trigger any day, and there is no knowing when it will happen. 

Once it is triggered, the person will be unable to fall into a deep sleep - instead they hover in a 'twilight zone' that leads to mental and physical deterioration, and the person affected eventually dies from the lack of sleep. This is because Fatal Familial Insomnia causes clumps of abnormal protein that damage nerve cells, which forms holes in the Thalamus, which is the part of the brain that regulates sleep. There is currently no treatment and no cure. 

Hayley and Lachlan were made aware of their family's genetic disease when they were teenagers. Their family is one of only 40 in the world who currently have the disease. Hayley Webb is a well-known reporter from the Gold Coast, Australia. Their family history includes their aunt passing away at 42, their mother at 61, their grandma at 69, and their mother's brother when he was 20. When their grandma started to get sick, it looked as if she was suffering from dementia. She also started hallucinating. She was eventually diagnosed with Fatal Familial Insomnia, and this was the first time the rest of the family was made aware of it. 

In December 2011, Hayley's mother also started showing symptoms. After a week, her mother started thinking that Hayley was the housekeeper. She then started to hallucinate, waking up in the middle of the night thinking that her first child (who had already passed away) was still alive and needed to be saved. When getting out to check on the baby, her lack of balance would cause her to fall down the stairs. In the final weeks, she was unable to walk or swallow, and 6 months after the gene was triggered, she passed away. 

Sonia Vallabh and Eric Minikel are an American couple who are also affected by Fatal Familial Insomnia. In 2012, Sonia's mum started to show symptoms. She was too weak to stand and balance, but she was too confused to realise she was too weak, causing her to keep standing and falling. Tests show that Sonia also had the genetic disease. Knowing that her time was limited, both Sonia and Eric quit their jobs to dedicate their time to help find a cure - he wanted to save his wife and she wanted to live so she could stay and grow old with him. Both are now leading researchers at the Broad Institute in Massachusetts. 

When Hayley read about Sonia and Eric's research online, she got in touch with them. Hayley and Lachlan then travelled from Queensland, Australia to San Francisco to take part in a ground-breaking research project at The University of California, hoping it could one day help save their lives. Tests included sleep tests, cognitive tests, and motor skills tests. After Hayley and Lachlan completed the tests, they finally met Sonya and Eric for the first time in person. 

Even though the disease could strike at any time, Hayley, Lachlan, Sonia, and Eric all have been determined to keep living their life to the fullest. A behavioral neurologist at the University explains that they hope that in our lifetime, researchers can find a cure.