Eastern Congo, Africa, had been devasted by more than 25 years of war. Now, Ebola is a new threat to its residents, and has killed more than 2000 people. This documentary is about the stories of people affected by the virus in the Congo, and the stories of health workers risking their lives in the Ebola danger zone. One of the stories included a boy in the Congo, called John, who fell sick. The doctor told the parents that the boy had been poisoned. However, days later, the boy passed away. The boy’s father was devasted, but not long after, this wife also started showing symptoms. Doctors thought it was poison again, but then she also passed away. Similarly, his mother also got sick and died. It was discovered that this father also already had the virus too.

Bosco Kambale Safari was one of the medical technicians who assisted in the Congo. His job was to assist with the burial of the people who had died of Ebola. Footage shows him taking the bodies out of their homes in coffins, as the village members cried while watching. Marie-Roseline Darnycka Belizaire is another medical doctor from Haiti. She believed her duty was to help and care for people, and that is what inspired her to continue working as a medical technician.

According to many medical technicians, this region is one of the most dangerous regions to be operating in. Health workers are constantly attacked by many residents of the Congo who do not believe Ebola exists. A hospital was broken into where a meeting was being held, and the perpetrators killed one of the members of the World Health Organisation. It is referred to as having ‘Ebola in a war zone’. Many members of the community do not trust outsiders. There was one boy who died, and the body was highly infectious. Medical staff had to convince the family that they had to give a secure burial for the body to prevent others from being infected. However, the family did not trust the medical team.

Rumours started spreading that Ebola was made up so that foreigners could have an excuse to invade and control the population. Sometimes, when health workers arrived in a village to collect a body, they were randomly attacked by the locals. This was because many family members and friends wanted to see the body and say goodbye. According to health technicians, they were trying their best to fight against the deadly disease, but some people were still cruel to them. At one point, medical staff tried to bring an Ebola survivor back to his village to try to convince and prove members of the village that Ebola exists.

In one village, an infected corpse had been left behind, exposing the whole village to contamination. One resident in the community who was working with the Red Cross who had 7 children was concerned that the virus would reach his home. He explains that sometimes he feels like giving up, since it is possible the whole area will get infected and die, but he chooses to keep going and to keep fighting the virus.

Another survivor of Ebola is Jophet Kamuisa Kasere. Since he is an Ebola survivor, he developed some sort of immunity to the disease and was hired as a nurse to care for other suspected Ebola patients. He took care of some of the children whose parents were being treated for Ebola in the Ebola Treatment Centre. He says the nurses regarded them as their own children.

According to one of the residents, there had been rumours of a pending attack at the Ebola treatment centre. 3 months later, in Biakato, Eastern Congo, at the WHO centre, Dr. Marie-Roseline Darnycka Belizaire sent voice messages that they were in lockdown and could hear shooting outside. During the night, an armed group entered the compound of the Ebola response team. They killed three of the Ebola responders and injured many others. Videos also showed that they set many items on fire. Dr. Marie and many others were forced to evacuate the area. She explains that it hurt them so much knowing that so many people needed their help, but many people were also unknowingly spreading the illness to their own families and communities. By mid-December 2019, Dr. Marie and other responders started returning to North Kivu as the outbreak continued.