In December 2019, the first known case of the Coronavirus outbreak was discovered in Wuhan. Wuhan is the largest city, and capital of Hubei Province in China. Since it is one of the Central locations to the rest of China, it was considered one of the worst places for the outbreak to start - especially with the Lunar New Year also approaching in January 2020. Multiple people started to feel ill from a mysterious virus. Many were going to doctors and hospitals presenting with a form of pneumonia. 

Since COVID19 was still unknown, it took a while for doctors to register the new virus. The first case was recorded on December 1st, 2019. The virus is thought to have originated from a local Seafood and wildlife market. The virus probably originated from bats, but used an intermediary animal host. The disease was thought to have been spread by someone contracting it from handling infected meat, and then spreading the virus to other humans. 

Doctors in Wuhan started sharing information about the virus in a private chat group. In the chat group included a doctor, Li Wenliang, and some classmates at their university. They attempted to sound the alarm already and spread awareness of COVID19, and informed each other that people were coming in with what they thought was the SARS virus. SARS is another type of coronavirus which killed 774 people in 2002 and 2003, and is very infectious. It had a high mortality rate of 10%. Many healthcare workers also died while trying to treat people with SARS.

On the same day of Dr Li's warning, the Wuhan Health Commission sent an emergency message to all hospitals, that if they found anyone with these strange pneumonia symptoms, to adjust hospital resources and treat those patients on the spot. However, the notice also warned staff to keep the news of the virus quiet. Local officials also withheld information. Authorities stated that they would punish 'with zero tolerance' illegal acts that fabricate information, spread rumours and disrupt social order. Dr Li was disciplined by his own hospital for sharing information about the new virus. He was picked up by police and investigated and was told to stop 'spreading rumours'. In February 2020, when Dr Li died of coronavirus, there was a huge outpour of anger from citizens to the Chinese government.  

Other critics of the Chinese government, like Dr Wu Qiang, also continued to speak out over the government's handling of the crisis. According to Dr Wu Qiang, the government was attempting to withhold information for the sake of keeping internal order, which was considered more important than stopping the spread of the virus. When government officials realised that the virus was getting out of control, they finally notified the World Health Organisation (WHO) four weeks after the first infections were discovered. This gave a lot of time for the virus to spread to other parts of the city, to the rest of China, and to the world. 

December and January is the time of year where many Chinese travel to/from China to prepare for Chinese New Year with their families. This includes hundreds of millions of people - which makes it easier for any virus to spread. One of the families preparing for their annual trip included Ying Wang and her family, who were also concerned about the virus. In January 2020, there was an official announcement from the local government in Wuhan saying the disease was controllable, so they went ahead with their trip and arrived in Wuhan on January 9.

January 9, a 61-year-old man from the original seafood market where the virus started was the first man to die of coronavirus. His death was not announced until 2 days later. On January 22, a press conference was held in Beijing. Here, political officials finally announced the dangers and risks of the virus, and that the virus is getting much worse. On the 23rd, lockdowns started taking place and people were unable to leave their houses. All public transport, and the airport, had been shut down to try and stop the spread. It is explained that this kind of containment had never been tried before on this scale. 

Many patients were isolated in the emergency department at hospitals. By late January, Wuhan's hospitals started struggling. Medical staff were stressed due to lack of resources, an overwhelming number of admissions, mental fatigue, and the trauma of dealing with so many patients infected with the virus who were also dying. Footage taken by patients inside the hospital also shows how full and busy the hospital was. One video showed 3 bodies lying on the floor since that morning which could not be tended too because of the lack of resources. Construction started development on new hospitals to help with the lack of resources.

Overtime, the death toll overtook the numbers killed by SARSs, and there had been 8,000 cases reported in 18 countries. People were afraid to go outdoors, have social events with friends, because they were all afraid of catching the coronavirus. Residents of Wuhan started filming the empty streets, showing what looked more like ghost towns. All shops were closed. Checkpoints and roadblocks started becoming more frequent in the province of Hubei. Many people compared it to an apocalyptic scenario, where people were constantly being pulled over and checked. 

Many residents of China took to venting out their anger to the Chinese Government online. This included Wuhan residence who had been under isolation, and effectively cut off from the rest of China. More videos also emerged on social media of authorities using drastic measures to force people out of their homes for forced quarantine. It also shows them welding apartment and house doors so people couldn't get out. 

Many Australians were stranded in Wuhan when the lockdown started. Tim McLean was one of them. He was staying in an apartment with his Chinese spouse. Foreign Affairs rang him to tell him that his wife did not make the list of people who could fly back to Australia with Qantas. He refuted this, saying he would not leave Wuhan without his wife, and went on to film the streets around his home. He lived right next to a hospital, so he filmed the front of the hospital, and also filmed medical officers spraying disinfectant around nearby streets. Eventually there was a seat available on an available Qantas flight for both him and his partner. However, he was unable to make it to the airport because of travel restrictions, and explained that authorities are now checking everyone's temperature in their homes. If anyone has a temperature, they are dragged out and grouped together with other sick people. 

Australia's first case of covid was confirmed in Victoria, and NSW had 2 'probable' cases. Australian scientists became the first scientists outside China to isolate the virus in their labs. CSIRO scientists also started growing the virus under their highest security lab for research. This was done to produce more of the virus and to learn about its behavior, and how it progresses over time. Data found from this research was to help with finding how to create a vaccine.