The suicide rate has increased by 22% since June, 2019. Suicide support hotline centers are overwhelmed with the amount of calls they are receiving, causing wait times to be long. Many people who attempt to call the hotlines end up hanging up and attempting suicide. 

In April 2020, a 59 Year old woman tried to commit suicide infront of the ministery of Finance, in Bankok. She had been waiting for her financial aid, which was 5,000 baht (US$16), which had not arrived. She was not informed why it was not arriving, and whe she would recieve it. She lived in extreme poverty and states that she even had to split a single instant noodles packet between 3 meals. 

She prepared some poison, and planned to reason with members at the ministery of Finance. If they didn't listen, she would commit suicide. After the suicide attempt, the government looked into her case again, and discovered that she did qualify after all, and needed the money.

The Financial Aid Program designed to give these handouts was called 'No one left behind.' However the documentary film outlines the many reasons why some citizens were left behind:

- The database not working properly
- People who did not have the access to technology were not able to identify themselves (eg, uploading IDs)
- Many people were still classified as 'farmers' even though they had moved into the city under a different government scheme.
- People who are working in the tourism industry, such as sex workers. There is still a stigma against what is moral/ethical which prevents many people from wanting to help them, making their access to government help limited.

Mental health experts and suicide survivors are interviewed and many agree that the extreme economic situation has caused deteriorating mental health among people. People with schizophrenia can be danger to themselves or other people. Some examples of this include:

- Elderly official beaten to death by 'mentally ill' homeless man
- Five children slain in Chiang Mai by a 22 year old man suffering from Schizophrenia
- Mentally ill man confesses to killing his mother
- Mentally ill Phuket man blows half his head off

The Department of Mental Health falls under the Universal Health Care cover, and so there are people who are able to be treated my going to the hospital. However, one survivor explained how wait times can be up to 7 hours long. There is also a Mental Health Awareness Campaign aimed at also assisting those who are Mentally ill.