Aeroflot Flight 593 was a passenger flight that crashed into a mountain because the pilot let his son fly the plane. This caused the plane to fly off-course temporarily and it took a long time for the pilots to understand what was going on, and they eventually lost control of the plane.

[Aeroflot Flight 593](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aeroflot_Flight_593)

Aeroflot Flight 593 was a regular passenger flight from Moscow to Hong Kong. On 23 March 1994, the pilot at the time had allowed his 12-year-old daughter and 16-year-old son on the flight deck, and let them play with the controls for a limited time (this was against regulations).

The pilot told his son to slowly move the steering wheel to the right. It seemed that the pilot was temporarily distracted, and the son started turning the wheel harder than usual. The autopilot disengaged, and the plane started deviating off track.

> the pilot's son had unknowingly disengaged the A310's autopilot control of the aircraft's ailerons. The autopilot then disengaged completely, causing the aircraft to roll into a steep bank and a near-vertical dive. Despite managing to level the aircraft, the first officer over-corrected when pulling up, causing the plane to stall and enter into a spin; the pilots managed to level the aircraft off once more, but by then, the plane had lost too much altitude to recover and crashed into the Kuznetsk Alatau mountain range.

When the aircraft crashed into a mountain range in Kemerovo Oblast, Russia, all 63 passengers and 12 crew members on board were killed.