The Hindenburg was a large aircraft (different shape to a plane) which left Frankfurt for Lakehurst on the evening of 3 May, 1937. Is was as big as an ocean liner and stands as tall as a 13 storey building. 

The airships were considered the cruise liners for the future, and mostly for the wealthy for the time (the ultimate luxury experience - with great bars/wine/lounge/view areas). 

The Hindenburg crashed upon landing and marked the abrupt end of the airship era. 36 people were killed.

[Hindenburg Disaster](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hindenburg_disaster)

The airship was hours behind schedule when it passed over Boston on the morning of May 6, and its landing at Lakehurst was expected to be further delayed because of afternoon thunderstorms. They decided to take a detour to let the weather pass. By the time it got to Lakehurst to land, the Hindenburg was almost 12 hours behind schedule.

The crew then chose to start landing the airship when the conditions were still dangerous. There were still some winds and heavy rain. During this, static electricity built up on the ship, spread evenly throughout the structure. 

The captain stirred the airship towards the direction of the wind (so that it's not against/fighting the wind), since that was safer. The wind suddenly changed direction. The Captain had the option to abort the landing, go around and try again. However, they were running late, so instead he made a sharp turn immediately to face the wind. 

This sharp turn caused a wire near one of the gas tanks to snap. The gas cell ruptures, and hydrogen begins to leak out. When this happened, the rear of the aircraft got heavier. The tilted aircraft was as a result of the leaking Hydrogen at the back of the airship. The captain didn't know this and tried to balance the aircraft by watering some of the water from the water tanks. 

People on the ground saw a 'fluttering' movement towards the fin/tail of the airship. This was the hydrogen gas starting to leak out of the aircraft.

The airship then started aligning to the landing area, and dropped 2 ropes from a high altitude, so the Hindenburg could be attached to the landing mast. When the ropes fell to the ground, it acted as a conductor and electricity started to flow between the airship and the ground, igniting the leaking gas in the process.

At this point, the Hindenburg erupted in flames in an instant, with all passengers trapped inside the burning vehicle. The nose lifted up, and the fire engulfed the entire airship in seconds.