The Cocoanut Grove was a nightcub/diner where people would eat and listen to music in the early 1900s. The fire happened on November 28, 1942. It was caused by a section of one of the back walls/roofs igniting due to a combination of lack of oxygen, high temperature levels, the flammable material of the walls, and the flammable material in nearby surroundings.

[Cocoanut Grove fire](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cocoanut_Grove_fire)

The club had a good reputation in Boston and was very popular. It consisted of many bars, dining rooms, lounges and entertainment stages for performances. The owner at the time was tough and had ties to the Mafia. They hired busboys and teenagers at low wages. The bricked up the back exit of the club to stop people escaping without paying, leaving only one entrance/exit, a revolving door at the front.

The furniture was mostly made of paper, cloth or bamboo (all very flammable stuff) to make it look like you were surrounded by coconut/palm trees.

On November 28, 1942, there was a football game where the Boston College Football team were playing someone else (College of the Holy Cross). Boston College lost, but many football fans, war servicemen, and thankgiving travellers went to the Coconut Grove and it ended up being overcrowded, with more people than the maximum capacity.

Stanley Tomaszewski, a 16-year-old busboy had to fix a lightbulb under one of the palm trees. He lit a match in order to see what he was doing, then put the match out. Coincidentally, seconds after he put the lightbulb back, the fire started at that same area and spread very quickly through the roof, moving faster than the speed of patrons trying to escape. Within five minutes, flames and smoke had spread to the entire nightclub.

People were unable to find other exits so they all rushed towards the main revolving door. Since people were panicking, many trampled over each other and they were not really able to get through the door due to a wall of people piling up against it, eventually jamming then breaking the door. 

The employers were able to escape through hidden staff areas that provided more exit options, and they abandoned the customers dying inside. 

Stanley Tomaszewski, the busboy who lit the match, was outcasted for many years of his life and called a 'murderer' by the public. Many years later it was found that the fire was not caused by him but the deadly combination of no oxygen, hot temperatures and flammable material. It was also found that the owner had made shortcuts on the building and did not adhere to many safety regulations in order to save money, and the building itself was not safe.

Because of this event, new fire laws around buildings, exits and revolving doors have been made and they are the ones we use today. Advances in the care of burn victims were also made.