On the 26th April 1986, an uncontrollable nuclear chain reaction happened at the No. 4 reactor in the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant, near the city of Pripyat in the north of the Ukrainian SSR. It is considered the worst nuclear disaster in history and led to the evacuation of Pripyat and nearby areas. It is now considered unsafe due to radiactivity, and will not be safe to inhabit for another 10,000+ years or so.

[Chernobyl disaster](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chernobyl_disaster)

In 1986, technicians were preparing for a routine test to test the cooling system in Reactor 4.

In the reactor, Uranium rods are used to produce a massive amount of heat, which is used to convert water into steam. The steam drives huge turbines to generate electricity. The reactor has some measures in place to prevent it from overheating. For example, 'control rods' are inserted inbetween the Uranium rods, and colling water is constantly pumped around the reactor's core.

The purpose of the test they were running was to see if the reactor could still keep it's coolant's pumps running, even if the plant lost power, and if they could keep them running when the generator started.

They reduced the power so it was extremely low. When they tried to raise the power again, it resulted in a power surge, the control rods were removed, making the technicians lose the ability to cool the reactor, so it overheated. It started to melt the reactor's core. Reactor 4 then exploded, releasing a lot of radioactive material into the atmosphere. 150,000 people were evacuated. 31 people died within a few days due to radiation sickness.