The Titanic sank in the middle of the Atlantic after hitting an iceburg, killing 1,490–1,635 people.

[Sinking of the Titanic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sinking_of_the_Titanic)

The Titanic was the largest ship in the world at the time. Captain Edward Smith was piloting the ship. When it entered the iceburg area, most people were already asleep and in their beds. 

At 23:39, the lookouts (Fleet and Lee) noticed the iceburg. Fleet asked, "Is there anyone there?" Moody replied, "Yes, what do you see?" Fleet replied, "Iceberg, right ahead!" The captains on deck attempted to manouver the ship to get out of the way of the iceburg. It was able to avoid a head-on collision, but didn't move in time to avoid hitting the iceburg on the side.

The Iceburg hit the side, creating a big gash all the way from the 1st - 5th compartments. Steel and Iron parts of the gash opened allowing water to flood into the ship. The boilers were still full of hot high-pressure steam and there was a substantial risk that they would explode if they came into contact with the cold seawater flooding the boiler rooms. Workers in the boiler rooms also had to escape before the watertight doors closed. 

Around 00:15, the stewards began ordering the passengers to put on their lifebelts, though again, many passengers took the order as a joke since everyone still believed the Titanic was 'unsinkable.' 

There were many issues with the evacuation of passengers:

- There weren't enough lifeboats, there was only 20.
- Almost all of those who jumped or fell into the water drowned or died within minutes due to the effects of cold shock and incapacitation
- First class passengers were top priority, especially women and children
- Third class passengers were usually stuck in the lower levels and had difficulty getting above to the main deck

A band also played some music as the ship started sinking even more. The lights went out, and the front part (stern) started to sink completely underwater, bringing the top of the ship up. The back of the ship went into the sky, and the middle of the ship snapped in half, causing the bottom half to fall back into the water again. The whole thing was finally pulled under the water. The whole sinking took 2 hours and 40 minutes.

In the immediate aftermath of the sinking, hundreds of passengers and crew were left dying in the icy sea, surrounded by debris from the ship. Almost all of those in the water died of cardiac arrest or other bodily reactions to freezing water within 15–30 minutes. Only 13 of them were helped into the lifeboats even though these had room for almost 500 more people. The noise of the people in the water screaming, yelling, and crying was a tremendous shock to the occupants of the lifeboats.

Gracie wrote of the admiration he had for those in the water; "In no instance, I am happy to say, did I hear any word of rebuke from a swimmer because of a refusal to grant assistance... [one refusal] was met with the manly voice of a powerful man... 'All right boys, good luck and God bless you'."

After about twenty minutes, the cries began to fade as the swimmers lapsed into unconsciousness and death. 5 lifeboats worked together to form a rescue team, and they started going towards the drowning people (most of who were already dead).

Titanic's survivors were rescued around 04:00 on 15 April by the RMS Carpathia, which had steamed through the night at high speed and at considerable risk, as the ship had to dodge numerous icebergs en route.

Joseph Bruce Ismay was an English businessman who served as chairman and managing director of the White Star Line. He was onboard the Titanic and was responsible for a lot of the overhead decisions with construction and maintaining the Titanic's speed (while it was enroute). He saved himself, cowardly.