A train derails at high speed during rush hour in the morning in Osaka, Japan, as people are commuting to work. 107 people were killed and more than 500 were injured.

[Amagasaki derailment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amagasaki_derailment)

One morning in Osaka, Japan, people were commuting to their work as usual and boarded the train. The driver was 23 year old Ryūjirō Takami, and was under pressure to keep up with the strict time schedule. Trains were meant to arrive at the platforms by the second, and there was a possibility for punishment if drivers did not make it in time.

He made 2 mistakes before the crash. 

- Ryūjirō was speeding at a point along the track, and he ended up running a red light.
- An alarm went off in the cabin to inform him that he was speeding again, however he either ignored it or didn't notice it. They started approaching Itami Station, where Ryūjirō realised he needed to break hard (so he put on the emergency break). This caused the train to overshoot the platform, and the 5th carriage ended in the position the 1st carriage was meant to be in. Ryūjirō had to reverse the train to get it back into the correct position.

After this, the train was now between 1-2 minutes late.

Ryūjirō continued to drive the train, and started going unusually fast in order to make up for the lost time. He was going to fast when the train took a bend, and as the train was turning it flipped onto its side and off the tracks, into an apartment block.

The 1st carriage fell into the garage of the apartment block, the 2nd carriage was crushed into an L-shape, around the corner of the apartment, and the remaining carriages were ontop of each other scattered throughout and around the side and on the tracks.

It was found that the driver, Ryūjirō, was working as a train driver for 11 months. In his first 3 weeks, he was punished for overshooting a station by 100m. He was sent to a 're-training' program, however the 're-training' program was full of officers that belittled and insulted the employees that went there for multiple days or weeks at a time. There was no actual 're-training' involved to help employees learn from their mistakes.

It was speculated that Ryūjirō had already made 2 offenses on that trip, causing the train to run late. He was worried about his punishment and did not want to go back to 're-training', and therefore, he continued to speed and underestimated the tight turn that ended up derailing the train.