In 1988 a high-speed train crashed into a road bridge and derailed near the village of Eschede, Germany. 101 people were killed and 88 were injured. 

[Eschede derailment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eschede_derailment)

The train was a business/high train, carrying 400 people at the time of the crash. It was called the ICE 884.

5 hours into the journey, a loud 'bang' was heard, which seemed to come from somewhere under the train. At the same time, a metal shard came out from the ground and through the arm rest of a mother and a son. The family went to the train conductor to tell them what happened. The conductor refused to activate the emergency brake, saying that he must investigate the issue first.

The train approached the town of Eschede. The train started swaying from side to side as the conductor went to investigate the issue. All of a sudden, the crashes into the roadblock, barely missing a house. 

Investigations showed that the crash was caused by a fault in the wheel. The metal rim of the train broke, smashing through the ground and inbetween the armrests of the mother and son. 

When the train passed over a set of rail points (another rail line merging with the current one), the damaged wheel rim causes the train to derail (the front of the train still on the main rail line, the 3rd/4th carriage followed the second branching train line) and pulled the train into 2 different directions at high speed. The 4th carriage hit the pillars of the roadbridge, causing it to collapse, completely crushing the 5th carriage. The resulting debris forced the remaining 6 carriages to pile up onto each other in a zig-zag shape.

The crash was so severe that rescue operations lasted for 3 days after the crash happened.

Wheel inspections were inadequate and issues with it were not picked up. Two engineers and an employee from the wheels manufacterer were charged with negligence and manslaughter.