On the morning of 6 December 1917, a French cargo (The Mont-Blanc) ship filled with high explosives, collided with the Norwegian vessel (Imo) in the harbour within Halifax. A fire broke out on the French Cargo ship, resulting in the largest human-made explosion at the time. Approximately 2,000 people were killed by the blast, debris, fires, or collapsed buildings, and an estimated 9,000 others were injured.

[Halifax Explosion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halifax_Explosion)

The Mont-Blanc was carrying the explosive material from New York to Bordeaux, France, via Halifax. At the narrowest point of the harbour, ships were meant to stay in two lanes. The two ships were going the opposite direction (one going in, one going out).

The Imo was making it's way in and was meant to stay in the left lane. However, it encountered 2 boats that were on the "wrong side of the road" forcing it to veer towards oncoming traffic temporarily.  

The Imo found it difficult to turn into the correct lane again (since it's a large boat), and kept speeding towards the Mont-Blanc. Both ships put their engines in reverse attempting to slow down, but it was too late.

When the two ships collided in the harbour, benzol barrels stored on deck were damaged. Vapours leaked from the barrels which were ignited by sparks from the collision, setting off a fire on board that quickly grew out of control. 

People started gathering on the harbour to watch the fire. Rescuers also tried to row smaller boats to the ship in order to put the fire out, not realising that the ship was now a ticking time bomb because of the flammable contents on board. Approximately 20 minutes later, the Mont-Blanc exploded and released the equivalent energy of roughly 2.9 kilotons of TNT, wiping out the entire city center/area nearby.

> Nearly all structures within an 800-metre (half-mile) radius, including the community of Richmond, were obliterated.[4] A pressure wave snapped trees, bent iron rails, demolished buildings, etc.