The Vajont Dam is a Dam located in Northern Italy. On 9 October 1963, during initial filling, a landslide caused water to overflow in the damn, topping over the damn and into several villages and towns below. 1,917 people died.

[Vajont Dam](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vajont_Dam)

The dam company and the Italian government knew that Monte Toc (the mountain next to the dam) was geologically unstable. They tried to dismiss or hide evidence to support this. They ignored numerous warnings, signs of danger, and negative appraisals.

Construction work for the dam started in 1957, but by 1959 shifts and fractures were noticed while building a new road on the side of Monte Toc. They warned that parts of the mountain would likely collapse into the basin if the filling were completed. During construction in 1959, a landslide caused a 20m high wave that killed one person. All of these warnings were ignored. Construction was completed in 1959, and in 1960 the dam basin started getting filled. 

Between 1960 and 1963 so many bad decisions were made by engineers to 'work around it' or avoid it even though slides, shakes, movements of the ground and smaller landslides were continuously reported. In October 1963, a massive landslide caused lots of rocks/parts of the side of the mountain to fall into the basin within less than 45 seconds. This destroyed the villages of Longarone, Pirago, Rivalta, Villanova and Faè, killing around 2,000 people and turning the land below the dam into a flat plain of mud. Many small villages nearby also suffered damage.

In Longarone, out of 372 buildings, only 22 were still standing. Estimates of the dead range from 1,900 to 2,500 people, and about 350 families lost all members. Most of the survivors had lost relatives and friends along with their homes and belongings. The dam was largely undamaged.