A Nuclear Power Station on 3 mile island had a partial meltdown causing evacutations of the area, and if anyone stayed they were exposed to the radioactive air that was released during the incident.

[Three Mile Island accident](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three_Mile_Island_accident)

People were worried about fuel being produced by coal since there was a shortage at the time. People started turning to Nuclear power, since it was considered cheaper and many new Nuclear Power plants were build based on government funding.

In March, 1979, a routine repair was occuring where workers were shooting compressed air into a pipe, trying to clean/get rid of a blockage in the giant filter. Some water made it's way into the air.

The reactor/machine/control board picked this up (thinking the water was a threat) and an automatic process in the machinery was triggered, shutting down some pumps, which increased the heat trapped inside the reactor coolant system. 

The pressure and heat had nowhere to go. So as they build up they get pushed to a pressure operated release valve, which opens to vents some of this pressure out. However the valve failed to re-close when finished, so coolant started leaking out of the pressure valve as well.

Because of this malfuction, instruments on the control board were giving incorrect readings to the operators. Pressure gauges started showing that there was TOO much water in the system (when in reality, there was not). They responded by shutting down more pumps, therefore even further reducing the amount of coolant in the system.

The heat started to reach 2000 degrees, and water started evaporating into gas. Because the system couldn't handle/process gas, they started to violently shake. Eventually it got to as high as 4000 degrees. Once 5000 degrees are hit, a Nuclear Meltdown happens and lava would start forming. Finally, another alarm went off saying that radiation was starting to be leaked everywhere, including the control room. A state of emergency was declared and the public was informed, but was told "there was no threat to safety to the public" 

A few hours later, radiation started leaking into the atmosphere. An Engineer made a press announcement to the public but did not mention anything about the radiation. Many people were exposed to levels of radiation that were extremely unsafe.

Finally, the reactor's designers called the control room inside the plant, and said to keep putting water/coolant or else the reactor will completely melt. This stabalised the heat and pressure that had been accumulating. However, the radiation levels were so high that the coolant itself started having radiation in it.

Three days after the incident, local police started informing the public that they needed to start evacuating (3 days after the people living nearby started being exposed to the radiation). 

It was then found that a lot of hydrogen had accumulated at the top of a dome, meaning it could possibly explode the top of the dome off releasing deadly radiation for hundreds of miles (like what happened at Chernobyl). However after some time they started slowly shutting the reactor down completely.

Throughout the ordeal, engineers from 3 mile island had been lying or downlplaying to the public about the dangers, and giving false information.