July 1st 2002, two planes collided mid-air, killing all 71 people on both planes. Issues with training, the TCAS system, and Air Traffic Controller error all led up to the cause of the crash.

[2002 Überlingen mid-air collision](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2002_%C3%9Cberlingen_mid-air_collision)

Bashkirian Airlines (BTC) Flight 2937 was a chartered flight from Moscow, Russia, to Barcelona, Spain. Among the passengers was a group of school children going on a funded trip as a reward for doing well in school. The other plane was a DHL Flight 611 Boeing 757-23APF cargo aircraft en route from Bergamo, Italy, to Brussels, Belgium.

Peter Nielsen was the air traffic controller on duty at the time of the collision. He was the only one on duty since his partner went to take an extended lunch break

When both planes entered the airspace for this Air Traffic Tower, Nielsen was distracted trying to get in contact with another airport for an unrelated reason. His phone was on backup mode, and the call failed multiple times.

2 minutes before the crash, both the DHL and BTC planes were flying at the same altitude, flying towards each other. A system called the STCA was meant to warn Nielsen of the impending collision, but didn't, because it was also in backup mode, and not fully functioning.

Less than 1 minute to the crash, Nielsen finally notices the plane's locations on his screen. He immediately tells the BTC pilots to descend. However, the automated TCAS system (in the cockpit of each plane) tells the DHL to descend, and the BTC pilot to climb. 

The BTC pilots are extremely confused as they are getting conflicting information. They choose to descend, taking Nielsen's advice as higher priority. Nielsen also told the BTC plane that the DHL were to their right, when actually, the DHL plane approached to their left, confusing them even more. 

Eventually the tail of the DHL crashed into the BTC, cutting the BTC in half completely. Both planes fell from the sky killing everyone onboard. 

[Vitaly Kaloyev](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vitaly_Kaloyev)

Peter Nielsen was murdered in an apparent act of revenge by Vitaly Kaloyev, a Russian citizen who had lost his wife and two children in the accident.