This documentary is about the memorials and stories of the Battle of the Somme which occurred between July 1, 1916, and November 18, 1916, during World War 1.

Hawthorne Crater is in Beaumont-Hamel, Northern France. It was one of the first craters blown to mark the start of the Battle of the Somme. Many men were killed and trapped from the first explosion alone. When the Battle of the Somme started, Germans were positioned on higher ground, and the British were coming from the West and attacking in an eastward direction up onto the hill.

The first British soldiers pushed through to the lip of the Hawthorne Crater. At one point, British soldiers were on one side of the crater under heavy machine fire from the Germans, who were exactly on the other side of the crater. British soldiers were able to hold this position until 12 noon of that day, but the Germans forced them back to their starting position. Specialist miners (men who worked in coal mines all over the UK, or in other underground jobs) also assisted the battle by digging tunnels underneath No Man’s Land to charge them with explosives.

Beaumont-Hamel Newfoundland Memorial has preserved the line of trenches that the British and German soldiers lived in during the battle. During one advance, a first wave of British soldiers attacked the Germans but were all heavily injured. Because of this, Germans were alert and expecting the next wave of attacks. When the next group of British soldiers attacked, they were unable to reach their own front line because of all the wounded and dead soldiers from the first wave.

Soldiers were told that to reach their own front line, they had to get out of their own trenches and run to the front line across the open ground. Here, they were exposed to open German machine gun fire. Even when they reached the front line, they were mostly cut down after entering No Man’s Land. The Danger Tree marks the furthest point in No Man’s Land reached by the British, which is only about 100 meters from their own front line. Out of the 800 soldiers that had gone into battle, more than 700 were killed or wounded.

The German trenches were much deeper than the British trenches. They were extremely strong and reinforced with stronger materials like concrete. This is because they focused on being on the ‘defensive’ and therefore tried to make their trenches impenetrable, compared to the British trenches which were not designed to be permanent and therefore were made more shallow.

A Scottish Unit that attacked on November 13 was more successful than previous attacks. They captured the position of the Germans and forced them out of their trenches, therefore gaining that land back to the allies. During this battle, soldiers had better artillery, stronger weapons, and even tanks.

In over 100 years, the grass has overgrown to cover the details of the trenches. In a cafe in Pozières, France, the local owner spent decades collecting artifacts from the battlefields, such as shells, helmets, armour, and other equipment. At the back of the cafe is a replica or example of what the trenches may have looked like at the time. Some of the items collected included a screw picket design, which allowed soldiers to set up and reinforce barbed wire quietly without Germans hearing them. Another was trench armour, which soldiers wore in the hopes that they would be protected by snipers or artillery that was fired.

On July 23, Australian troops were sent to Pozières. Germans had claimed a local windmill farm, and the Australian were tasked with claiming it back. They fought up until September, and in the process, they lost 23,000 men. This was the costliest battle of WW1 in the history of Australia. This was also the first battle where tanks were used, so there is a tank memorial at this location. The tank memorial itself was also slightly damaged in World War 2.

At the end of November, it was a British victory. However, hundreds of thousands were killed or missing during the Battle of the Somme. Thiepval Memorial is a memorial that lists over 72,000 names of people with no known grave. This memorial was built for grieving families who visit and find their family member’s names and have a physical place to remember them.