Mick Philpott had 2 wives, 17 children and did not work. The more children he had the more government benefits he recieved.

[Mick Philpott](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mick_Philpott)

He was a violent man who had extreme views about women and was convicted of attempted murder of one of his earlier girlfriends. When Philpott was 37+, he met Mairead Duffy (then 19) and after that Lisa Willis, (then 16) and made them his two wives.

Altogether from all his relationships he had 17 children and was recieving lots of government benefits. 6 of those children were from him with Mairead. He went on TV talk shows to try and get the public to sympethize over how he wasn't getting enough (he sent a request to the council for a bigger house and more money). 

> So he was unemployed but had a house, drove a car, had two spouses, 17 children, karaoke at home

Lisa left Mick and they were waiting for the trial which decided which parent got custody of the children. Mick wanted custody, so he created a plan to set his house on fire, and pretend to rescue the children inside the house, so he would look 'heroic' to the court. He though that the court would see him as the more 'fit' parent and give him custody. (He only wanted custody so that his government payments wouldn't decrease).

He poured some sort of flammable petrol through the mailbox and at the front. When he set the house on fire, the fire spread too quickly and he and Mairead went to the back of the house and tried to climb a ladder to enter the bedroom, where the children were sleeping. However they were unable to get in because of the heat of the flames and started to panic.

Fire brigades arrived and fought the flames and brought the children to the front, 5 of them died in the fire and 1 died at the hospital.