Evil Genius is a doco series about a bank heist where a man (Brian Wells) had a bomb strapped to his neck and was asked to rob a bank successfully, or else it would detonate, killing him.

[Evil Genius (TV series)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evil_Genius_(TV_series))

[Death of Brian Wells](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Death_of_Brian_Wells)

Brian Wells was a delivery man in Erie, Pennsylvania. One day he got a call to deliver pizza to a radio tower (probably an abandoned radio tower). He was jumped by some people who put a collar on him against his will, and gave him lots of notes written on paper (which were a set of instructions). The collar had a live bomb, and if he failed any of the instructions, or went to the police, the bomb would go off.

The instructions were very elaborate, like a puzzle/treasure hunt where he had to go to several locations in order to collect something, or find more clues in order to get the collar off his neck. The instructions stated that he needed to rob a bank, then go to another location in Erie to collect something, then do some other sets of instructions. Finally he had to go to a field where someone who collect the money he had taken from the bank. Then he had to go to more locations to collect a series of keys, if he could collect all of them he could disarm the bomb and take it off. He had to do all of this is a specific time frame. The whole time he was doing this, the people would be watching him.

Brian went along with it, he robbed the bank, but only reached a road nearby the bank where police had cornered him. Brian begged that he had a bomb that was going to go off on him, but police just surrounded him with guns pointing. They called the bomb disarming company but they were at least 45+ minutes away at the time. Eventually, after some time, the bomb went off and killed Brian. The damage was so severe that police had to decapitate him to preserve the collar for evidence.

William Rothstein and Marjorie Diehl-Armstrong were major players behind the crime, with Marjorie Diehl-Armstrong being the main mastermind behind it. The 2 met with many others to plan the bank heist. One of the men had a prostitute, and she suggested Brian Wells could be the 'guinea pig' that would commit the crime. Brian attended at least one of the meetings before the heist, which suggests that he knew about the plan, but he thought they would be strapping a fake bomb, not a real bomb.