Elizabeth Holmes was the founder of Theranos at 19 years old. Currently you have to have a blood test to draw multiple blood samples that would be used to test you for illnesses, etc. Her idea was to do all medical testing on a single drop of blood alone, with results that were just as accurate. She is now awaiting charges on fraud after it was uncovered they were not being truthful about their practices and were actually diluting blood, giving very inaccurate results.

[Theranos](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theranos)

[Elizabeth Holmes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elizabeth_Holmes)

Elizabeth Holmes went to Stanford University, but only for one or two semesters before dropping out. So her knowledge of biology was not very strong and she couldn't prove that her ideas would work scientifically. She did go to some of her professors, who told her that the idea would not work.

She had connections to many people who she was able to pitch the idea to. Many were onboard and gave her investment funding, which she used to fund Theranos. Theranos was eventually worth 9 billion. She also forced her voice to be lower to seem more 'powerful'. She also copied many characteristics of Steve Jobs like his clothing, and long pauses.

Her idea was to have a small device 'The Edison' which could run medical test using a single drop of blood, and people would be able to do this from the comfort of their own home. However at the moment this is medically impossible and lots of research and discovering would have to be made to make this possible. 

At the centers, Theranos would get people's drop of blood and dilute it before testing it. This caused many inaccurate results.

According to the people working there, the flow of information was very inconsistent and not transparent. It was difficult for people in certain departments to know what other departments were doing. She had many people working on the board of directors but none of them were actual doctors, pharmacists or biologists.

Some independent tests found discrepancies in Theranos. John Carreyrou (a Wall Street Journal reporter) started doing his own investigation and published his findings. Therano's value decreased to $0. Her fraud trial was delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

(Her Father was an executive at Enron)