Tania Head (Alicia Esteve Head) claimed she was on the 78th Floor of the World Trade Center South Tower (WTC 2) during 911. She had injuring to her arm and had to escape the towers through thick smoke and jet fuel poored all over her. Her story was very descriptive and graphic.

[](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alicia_Esteve_Head)

Tania Head also claimed that she lost her husband who was working in the other tower, the North Tower (WTC 1). 

After 911, she joined a support network for survivors of 911 who needed help trying to cope with what the experienced. Tania Head was very 'self-centered' and acted like her story was worse than everyone else (and that's because she had so many elements to her story that made hers 'seem' worse). It made others feel like they were less somehow. 

She did help alot with the survivor's network. She became the president for the network and helped organise events.

Eventually people started finding holes in her story. She was adding new details that were never mentioned before. For example, many accounts from people on higher floors mentioned a man in the red bandana. She never mentioned this man, and all of a sudden she added him.

She was also very inconsistent with details such as her Husband's name, told some people he was her husband and told others he was her fiance. 

Some reported started interviewing people around her circle to getmore details of these inconsistencies. She eventually fled without being confronted. 

Further investigations also showed that she was actually enrolled in a class in a different country at the exact time 911 happened, and was present in class. Her arm scars were there before 911 as well and caused by a different accident. No one knows where she is now.