On April 16, 2007, a school shooting happened at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. Seung-Hui Cho, an undergraduate student, killed 32 people and wounded 17 others with two semi-automatic pistols.

[Virginia Tech shooting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virginia_Tech_shooting)

The shooting were commited by Seung-Hui Cho (January 18, 1984 – April 16, 2007). He was diagnosed with a severe anxiety disorder with selective mutism, as well as major depressive disorder. He barely spoke. Fellow students described Cho as a "quiet" person who "would not respond if someone greeted him."

During the spring of Cho's eighth-grade year in 1999, the Columbine High School massacre made international news and Cho was transfixed by it.

[Seung-Hui Cho](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seung-Hui_Cho)

> Professor Nikki Giovanni taught Cho in a poetry class in the fall of 2005; she had him removed from her class because she found his behavior "menacing." She recalled that Cho had a "mean streak" and described his writing as "intimidating." Cho had intimidated female students by photographing their legs under their desks and by writing violent and obscene poetry.

> At approximately 9:45 a.m. EDT (13:45 UTC), he then crossed the campus to Norris Hall, a classroom building on the campus where, in a span of nine minutes, Cho shot dozens of people, killing 30 of them. As police breached the area of the building where Cho attacked the faculty and students, Cho committed suicide in Norris 211 with a gunshot to his temple. Cho's gunshot wound destroyed his face, obscuring identification of his body for several hours.

During the investigation, the police found a note in Cho's room in which he criticized "rich kids". In the note, Cho continued by saying that "you caused me to do this." Early media reports also speculated that he was obsessed with fellow student Emily Hilscher and became enraged after she rejected his romantic overtures.