Adam Matos was convicted of killing his ex-girlfriend Megan Brown (mother of his child), her parents and her new boyfriend (Nicholas Leonard), in their house in Florida, 2014.

Adam Matos started dating Megan Brown when they were both in their early 20s. They both had a son together called Tristan. Soon after, Megan and Adam started having relationship issues, and Megan's family wanted Megan and Adam to break up.

Megan's parents moved to Florida with Megan. Adam, who was unwelcomed, joined anyway, and they all ended up living together in Florida.

Adam found it difficult to hold down a job and was fired once after working for a short time in a restaurant. He mostly stayed in the house unemployed while both Megan and her mum worked.

Megan started moving on, hanging out with more friends, staying out late and started dating a new man, Nicholas Leonard. Adam was extremely jealous and threatened to kill Megan one night resulting in a 911 call. Megan called Nicholas over to help protect her from Adam.

That same night Adam Matos stormed off, then came back to the house in secret and waited nearby until all 4 people were inside the house (Megan, Nicholas , Megan's mum and dad). Adam killed the parents, then went into the room to find Megan and Nicholas lying down in bed together and killed them too (he spared Tristan, his son, who witnessed or heard the murders of the whole family).

He took 4 of the bodies and put them in a pile not far up the street. 6 days later police started to investigate the missing people. Adam ran away to a nearby hotel with Tristan, but was caught and interrogated. When he went to trial he tried to use 'self defense' as his reason for killing the family but this was rejected.
