Ted Bundy (November 24, 1946 – January 24, 1989) was an American Serial Killer. He confessed to 30 homicides that he committed in seven states between 1974 and 1978. The true number of victims is believed to be higher.

[Ted Bundy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ted_Bundy)

Ted Bundy used to dress up as someone who was sick (or had a broken leg), needed help, was a police officer etc in order to get girls to follow him. Once they did, he would kidnap, rape and kill them and dump them somewhere on a mountain. He would then committed necrophilia.

He used to go back and revisit his dumping sites to commit necrophilia again on people who were already half decomposed. His assault were very graphic. For example, he would bite their nipples off.

He was known for being extremely charasmatic and 'good looking.' He went to university and was extremely intelligent. He even had a romantic relationships with a girl who had a daughter. They both did not know that Ted Bundy was committing murders behind their back.

Ted Bundy was so hard to catch because he would commit his murders in different states, and each state was not aware of the patterns. There were breakdowns in communication between departments.

Eventually he was caught as the police were attempting to compile lists of possible offenders (for example, Volkswagen owners named "Ted" who were sexual offenders). A police car saw him driving at early hours of the morning, and wanted to search his car. He found a ski mask and murder weapons. Carol DaRonch was a survivor of Ted's attempted murder. She was able to pick him out in a lineup.

Bundy died from the electric chair at 7:16 a.m. EST on January 24, 1989. People sang out in happiness as he died, and as his body was being carried out.