David and Louise Turpin had 13 children who were being kept at home in seriously abusive conditions.

[Turpin case](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turpin_case)

Louise grew up in an abusive home where her father regularly sexually and physically abused her and her other female family members. When she got older she met David Turpin, and they moved to Virginia. From 1988 to 2015 they had ten daughters and three sons. All their children’s names begin with the letter “J”. Throughout their marriage they lived in Texas, then California.  

When the family left their Texas home, neighbors found feces and beds with ropes tied to them in the house, along with dead cats and piles of garbage around the property. The children were living in very bad environment and were clearly being neglected. They were pale, malnourished walked strangely and did not seem to be developing behaviours properly.

By 2018 the Turpin children had been planning to escape their parents for more than two years. On January 14, 2018, two of the girls left the house through a window. The younger girl (13 years old) became frightened and turned back but the 17-year-old got some distance away and called 9-1-1 on a cell phone she had brought with her. When police officers met her she showed them photos of conditions inside the house. 

When police raided the house, they found that children were shackled to the bed/recently shackled.

In February 2019, both parents pleaded guilty for cruelty to a dependent adult, child cruelty, torture and false imprisonment. They were sentenced to life imprisonment with the possibility of parole after 25 years.