In August 1984, Austria, Elizabeth Fritzl went missing at 18 years old. She remained missing for 24 years, and it turned out that the whole time she was being held captive by her father, Josef Fritzl . He kept her in a hidden space under the house until her escape in 2008.

[Elizabeth Fritzl](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fritzl_case)

In 1984 the family recieved a mysterious letter, claiming to be from Elizabeth (it was actually fake/forged). The letter said that she had decided to run away to join some group or cult. In reality, her father, Josef Fritzl had planned for many years to abduct her. He had constructed an underground cell in preparation of her 18th birthday, which had multiple bolts and entryways and was very difficult to get out. 

On the 28th August 1984, Fritzl lured her into the basement of the family home, saying he needed help carrying a door. This was the last piece needed to seal what would turn out to be the chamber where Elisabeth was held captive. After Elisabeth held the door in place while Fritzl fitted it into the frame, he held an ether-soaked towel on his daughter's face until she was unconscious, then threw her into the chamber.

Elizabeth Fritzel then lived in the basement which had the bed, bathroom and mini kitchen all in one small confined space. Josef would visit was raped thousands of times by Josef and had 7 kids with him. 1 died shortly after birth, leaving 6 living children. Josef forced 3 to live underground with Elizabeth, and took the other 3 to live upstairs with the rest of the family.

Every time a new child arrived, Josef would claim that Elizabeth (who was still in the cult) dropped the child off at their doorstep everytime she had given birth. Josef's wife always just 'believed' it, and didn't seem to have her own brain cells that something was very suspicious. 

In 2008, Kerstin, the eldest daughter, fell unconscious and Josef agreed to take her to the hospital to get treated. She was suffering from kidney failure, but also from sever neglect and nurses were very concerned about her condition. Kerstin had no identity, was not on any registery, and the doctor's needed information about her medical history in order to diagnose her properly (it's as if she never existed). Because everything was so suspicious, nurses contacted police.

The police finally investigated the case and found Elizabeth Fritzel and the children in the house, and rescued them. They were given completely new identities and no one knows where they are now.