On March 1, 1983, 39-year-old Louis D. Hastings murdered six of the 22 citizens of the small town of McCarthy, Alaska, including Maxine Edwards, Harley King, Les and Flo Hegland, and Tim and Amy Nash. Hastings was sentenced to 634 years in prison for the murders.

Louis lived in the small town of McCarthy, Alaska. Every week members of the community would meet at the Hegland's home to socialise before picking up the mail dropped off by the mail plane.

Chris Richards was one of the neighbours and the first known person who Louis visited on the day of the killings. As Louis arrived, Chris greeted him as he continued to prepare tea for both of them. When Chris had his back turned, Louis shot him using a hidden gun under his glove. In retalisation, a struggle insued and Chris was able to stab Louis before running into the wilderness.

After persuing Chris for some time, Louis arrived at the Hegland's home, where members of the community were about to arrive for the weekly socialising before mail. He broke into the home, shooting all three people inside (Maxine Edwards and Les and Flo Hegland). He tried to hide the evidence and set up a trap for the neighbours who would be arriving soon.

Chris, still running in the wilderness, was able to reach the home of Tim and Amy Nash to warn them of Louis' shooting spree. They fled together to the airstip, where they met the pilot who flew Chris to get medical attention. Tim and Amy Nash stayed behind to warn others, but were both shot from behind by Louis.

Harley King and his friend, Donna, drove to the airstrip shortly after. They noticed a blood trail along with some bodies, and were immediately shot by  Louis. Donna was shot in the arm and was able to run away. She ran to the greenhouse of the Hegland's home and hid their during the remainder of the attack and rescue.

State troopers arrived, and during an air-search found Louis fleeing in a snow machine. When they landed they were able to identify him and arrest him immediately. 

They also discovered Donna, the only other survivor other than Chris and the mail plane's pilot.

The motive was soon investigated. Louis was an environmentalist from California who was against overpopulation and over-industrialisation. He was against The Alaskan Pipeline and the overall collection and ravaging of natural resources in the Alaskan winderness. He devised a plan which involved murdering his neighbours and hijacking the mail plane to fly to another nearby area. He would then get into a truck and drive it into The Alaskan Pipeline in order to blow it up.