Brenda Lin was the sole survivor of the LIn family murdered which occurred on July 18, 2009. 5 members of her family were murdered by her Uncle, Robert Xie. The victims included Min Lin, his wife Yun Lin, their sons Henry and Terry, and Yun Lin's sister Irene Lin.

Min and Yun immigrated to Australia and owned a successful Newsagency. The family lived in North Epping, Sydney, Australia. 

Brenda was in Year 10 and was on a School Trip to New Caledonia. While she was away, Robert Xie broke into the family home in the early hours in the morning with a hammer and killed all family members who were in the home.

The crime scene was also discovered by Robert Xie and his wife, Kathy Lin.

Brenda found about about the murders in the middle of her trip. A school mate had sent her an article of the murders, and she recognised her family home in the picture. She took the next flight home and met with other relatives at the airport.

The funeral service was conducted, with 5 coffins, and family members showing understandably overwhelming amounts of grief. Brenda was in attendance along with her classmates. 

Since Brenda was only 15, she needed to live with legal gaurdians. So she stayed with Robert Xie and Kathy Lin, without any knowledge that she was living with the man who killed her entire immediate family.

There was mounting evidence found towards Robert Xie, including:

- The crime scene included bloody footprints matching a particular type and brand of shoe, owned by Robert. Brenda's room was the only room that did not have bloody footprints, suggesting that the killer knew that Brenda was away.
- There were also signs that the killer likely had access to the family home, and was therefore close to the family.
- Police bugged Robert's house with cameras and caught footage of him destroying evidence that linked him to the crime, including the Asics branded shoes that matched the killer's shoes.
- In the garage, under a drawer, was a stain consisting of human genetic material, which matched the DNA of several of the victims.
- After being arrested, he was secretly recorded confessing to another cellmate that he drugged his wife in order to sneak out of the house unnoticed.
- Robert had a history of sexual abuse towards Brenda, and the main motive put forward was his sexual obsession with his neice.

In 2011, almost 2 years after the murders took place, Robert Xie was arrested and found guilty of 5 counts of murder.