Carol Matthey was accused of killing her 4 children. 

The reason it was so difficult to convict her was because babies are very easy to murder without evidence. If you suffocate them, there is usually always no evidence that it's you who murdered them. People speculated that she killed the babies as a series of attention seeking behaviours, in order to stop her husband from separating.

In 1998 a mysterious fire broke out at their family home. As the only adult in the house at the time, Carol fled the house, saving her children. This is thought to be the first attempt she made to get attention.

1. The first one (Jacob) had an incident where he had difficulty breathing. Paramedics were called to help him. It suspiciously looked like he had been 'partially suffocated'. A month later, he died of similar circumstances.
2. The second one (Chloe)'s death was undetermined or due to SIDS (?) but babies do not die of SIDS while on their backs unless their faces were covered.
3. The third one (Joshua) has to undergo a minor surgical procedure on his abdomen at the hospital. This is thought to be because of poisoning. At Joshua's death, they were out shopping, and he suddenly stopped breathing. He was provided with a sleep apnea monitor but he was no connected to it.
4. The fourth one (Shania) apparently fell off a coffee table and stopped breathing. When she called 911, Carol said that Shania was unconcious but the operator said she could hear wimpering in the background. (So possibly Carol was smothering Shania as she was calling them). When Ambulance arrived, Shania had regained conciousness and seemed healthy. The next day Carol found her dead. 

Carol was found not guilty of the murder of her 4 babies (however, in the eyes of the public, many people believe that she definitely did it).

Kathleen Folbigg was another mother who was accused of murdering her children. All her children also died under mysterious circumstances. The only difference is that Kathleen was found guilty, and Carol was not, showing inconsistencies in our system.  

[Kathleen Folbigg](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kathleen_Folbigg)

Diary entries of Kathleen Folbigg might have been a factor in determining her sentence to be 'guilty'. Otherwise, the evidence of the actual baby deaths are pretty much the same.