Eliiot Rodgers (1991–2014) was a 22 year old man who committed a shooting spree on the evening of May 23, 2014 in Isla Vista, California.

[2014 Isla Vista killings](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2014_Isla_Vista_killings)

His motive was because he did not have a girlfriend, had not kissed a girl, and had never had sex. He had a manifesto which he uploaded to Youtube prior to the killings. He always talked about how he was the 'perfect man' and he was so surprised as to why no girls would fall for him.

One particular video, he was spying on a couple who were together at a beach. He was complaining about how they were being so openly together, and it disgusted him. He was explaining how they would go home and the guy would have sex with the girlfriend. He was jealous that they got to do that and he never got to have sex.

> In 2011, Rodger threw coffee on a couple he was jealous of. In another incident, he splashed coffee on two girls for not smiling at him. In 2012 Rodger used a Super Soaker filled with orange juice to spray a group playing kickball at Girsh Park.

He wanted to take revenge on girls because they didn't 'love' him or want to have sex with him. His main target were students of the University of California in Santa Barbara.

Before the attack, he emailed his manifesto to 34 people, including his therapist, friends and family:

> Tomorrow is the day of retribution, the day in which I will have my revenge against humanity, against all of you. For the last eight years of my life, ever since I hit puberty, I've been forced to endure an existence of loneliness, rejection and unfulfilled desires all because girls have never been attracted to me. Girls gave their affection, and sex and love to other men but never to me.[36] I'm 22 years old and I'm still a virgin. I've never even kissed a girl. I've been through college for two and a half years, more than that actually, and I'm still a virgin. It has been very torturous. College is the time when everyone experiences those things such as sex and fun and pleasure. Within those years, I've had to rot in loneliness. It's not fair. You girls have never been attracted to me. I don't know why you girls aren't attracted to me, but I will punish you all for it. It's an injustice, a crime, because ... I don't know what you don't see in me. I'm the perfect guy and yet you throw yourselves at these obnoxious men instead of me, the supreme gentleman.

Rodger began his attacks at his apartment on Seville Road, where three men were killed by numerous stab wounds to their upper bodies.

Rodger drove to the Alpha Phi sorority house. No one answered, so he shot nearby people passing by. Rodger then started driving around and shooting at nearby coffee shops, stores, and also shot openly at random people on the street.

Eventually he got into a shootout with police, and he shot himself in the head and died. 7 people died (3 by stabbing, 4 by gunfire including the perpetrator) and 14 were injured (7 by gunfire, 7 struck by motor vehicle).