Katherine Knight was convicted and sentenced to life in prison for the murder of her then-partner, John Price in Feb 2000. This happened in the small town of Aberdeen, NSW. The murder is known for being extremely graphic.

[Katherine Knight](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Katherine_Knight)

Katherine had a history of being violent in the past. She went to Muswellbrook high school and was a loner. She assaulted people. In her past relationships/marriages she attempted to murder or assault her partner:

> On their wedding night, Knight tried to strangle Kellett; she later explained it was because he fell asleep after only having intercourse three times

> A few days later, Knight slashed the face of a woman with one of her knives and demanded she drive her to Queensland to find Kellett.

> Knight had taken a young boy hostage and was threatening him with the knife.

> After an argument when she hit Saunders in the face with an iron before stabbing him in the stomach with a pair of scissors

Katherine also worked in a slaughterhouse, so she knew how to cut meat.

Katherine Knight started dating John Price. At some point they started having some sort of relationship issues leading up to the murder. John Price refused to marry her. They were constantly fighting. 

In Feb 2000, Katherine stabbed John in the chest. He survived and went to get a restraining order. That afternoon, Price told his co-workers that if he did not come to work the next day, it would be because Knight had murdered him. His co-workers begged him not to go home, but Price still did because he was concerned of the safety of children, who were at home.

Price went to bed at 11pm. Katherine entered the house and did things for a while. She then woke Price and they had sex, after which he fell asleep (why????)

At 6 am the next day, the neighbour became concerned that Price's car was still in the driveway, and when he did not arrive at work. His employer sent a worker to see what was wrong. They both found blood on the floor so the quickly called the police.

Katherine had stabbed Price 37 times that night. She caught him by surprise when he went back to sleep, and he was struggled to escape. Katherine skinned him and hung his 'pelt' on a meat hook. She then decapitated Price and cooked parts of his body, serving up the meat with baked potato, pumpkin, beetroot, zucchini, cabbage, yellow squash and gravy in two settings at the dinner table, along with notes beside each plate, each having the name of one of Price's children on it. She was preparing to serve his body parts to his children. Price's head was found in a pot with vegetables. The pot was still warm, estimated to be at between 40 and 50 °C indicating that the cooking had taken place in the early morning. Knight arranged the rest of the body with the left arm draped over an empty 1.25-litre soft drink bottle with the legs crossed.

She tried to put forwad a case claiming amnesia and dissociation, and that she was not in her mind. However she was found guilty and sentenced to life in prison.