Six people, comprising three generations of the Anderson family, were killed. The murders happened on Christmas eve, 2007. 

[2007 Carnation murders](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2007_Carnation_murders)

The people who were murdered included:

- Wayne Scott Anderson, 60 (father)
- Judy Anderson, 61 (mother)
- Scott Anderson, 32 (son of Wayne and Judy)
- Erica Mantle Anderson, 32 (wife of Scott)
- Olivia Anderson, 5 (daughter of Scott and Erica)
- Nathan Anderson, 3 (son of Scott and Erica)

The murders happened at Wayne and Judy Anderson's home. Scott, Erica, Olivia and Nathan were visiting them to spend Christmas even with them, where they were also killed.

A co-worker and best friend of Judy Anderson hadn't heard from Judy on the day after the holidays when they had to go back to work. She went to the home to check if she was okay, and found them lying on the ground, and called the police.

Police started processing the scene. While they were there, 2 people, Michele Kristen Anderson (the remaining family member, daughter of Wayne and Judy) and Joseph Thomas McEnroe (her boyfriend), appeared unexpectedly. They claimed that they lived on the property and were asking to be let in (it was found that they were living rent free on the property, in a mobile home separate to the rest of the family).

It didn't take long to figure out that they were responsible. They confessed soon after and it was revealed that it was Michele's idea to commit the murders because she was 'jealous' of her brother Scott Anderson. Scott was married and moved out, while she was living rent free, at her parent's property, unemployed (?).

They were both sentenced in 2016 to life imprisonment.