The Watt's family murders happened in August 2018 in in Frederick, Colorado. Chris Watts started cheating on his wife with Nichol kessinger. Whenever Shannan flew to another state for work or to visit family, Chris would spend time with Nichol. He realised at some point he didn't want a family, he wanted to be free from family and debt responsibilities. He eventually murdered his wife Shannan, two daughters Bella and CeCe, along with their unborn baby Nico.

[Watts family murders](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Watts_family_murders)

The Watt's family had a very 'public' life because Shannan was always livestreaming and posting videos on Facebook. A video of Shannan revealing that she was pregnant to Chris showed that he wasn't that excited. 

The story of how the murders happened are still disputed because Chris continuously kept lying and changing his story. One night Shannan came home from a trip, and Chris then went ontop of her and strangled her. One of the daughters then went into the room, and asked "what was wrong with mommy". Chris said "mommy isn't feeling well". He then loaded her onto his truck along with the girls. The girls sat in the back seat, with Shannan on the ground of the back seat. 

Chris then drove a while (probably 30-60 minutes) to where he worked, which was a field with oil tankers. He dug a grave where he placed Shannan, then asked each daughter out of the car one at a time and smothered them. He then placed them into the oil tanks where they sort-of melted.

That same day, the family was reported missing by a close friend. Shannan had an appointment and a business meeting, both of which she had missed. The close friend went to the house to check on them, and called the police to investigate. 

There is lots of body cam footage to show how disinterested Chris was during the police investigation. The police waited outside for a long time, as soon as Chris arrived he entered the house without letting them in, and took a while to open the door for everyone else. (It is speculated he did a last minute check of everything in the house). He kept looking at his phone, it was very awkward as the officer was asking him questions. 

The neighbour had a surveillance camera which showed Chris leaving the home at an unusual time and carrying something into his truck. He was also interviewed by the media, and his body language was not consistent of someone who was worried and concerned for their family.

He took a lie detector test which he failed, and lots of evidence was found that he committed the murders. He tried to say that Shannan was the one who killed the children, and he killed her out of anger.

Eventually he confessed to all the murders. Now in 2020, he is trying to find a loophole or a way to manipulate the system so he can get out of jail.