Enron was an energy company they firstly focussed on natural gasses. They would list profits that either hadn't been made yet or profits that were not at all happening, to make their company look like it was worth more on paper than it actually was. This made more people invest in the company (when the company was not even making profits), but that money was going to the C-levels and executives of the company, making them millionaires.

[Enron](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enron)

The working environment at Enron was very competitive. The bottom 10% would get fired, making many people work 16+ hours a day just to keep their sales. 

When a deal or contract was made, Enron was allowed to record the profit on that day (even if the deal wasn't finalised or if they hadn't recieved any payments yet). They continued to keep writing profits when in reality projects were left unfinished, they didn't recieve payments from certain companies, or deals were not finalised. For example they had a multi-million dollar project in India, but India was not able to pay Enron. The site was left abandoned and Enron still recorded they had profits for the project, and predicted future profits in their books.

Enron also started trading things like 'weather'.

The company also filed false tax returns. Many of the people who needed to check Enron didn't understand how complex the business was so they assumed it was working. 

Finally some people started asking questions about the company and how the internals of the company worked. Auditors started finding inconsistencies. As soon as this was happening, people in some offices started shredding evidence and their papers filled with records/profits, because they all knew it was fraud and they knew the company was collapsing. 

The top-level executives ended up going to jail, many are now released, and planning to start another venture but in secret.