The Fyre Festival was a scam music/film festival, which was meant to be located in the Bahamas (on 'Pablo Escobar's private island') where people paid big money to attend. The festival was so poorly organised that people had nowhere to stay, no food or water, and there was no actual music festival.

[Fyre Festival](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fyre_Festival)

Billy McFarland and Ja Rule organised and promoted the festival. They decided to have it in Norman's Cay, the Bahamas (rumored to be 'Pablo Escobar's private island'). They were not allowed to mention this on any of their promotional material, but they did anyway.

Billy and Ja Rule invited some A-listing models to the island where they filmed some promotional material of them swimming, dancing on a boat or dancing around a campfire on a beach. They uploaded these promotional materials to Instagram and paid the models to all post an orange square with a 'Fyre' logo to stimulate some talk amongst the Instagram community. 

4 months before the festival, Billy and Ja Rule were kicked off the island and told they were no longer allowed to use it since they breached the restriction on how they were no allowed to mention Pablo Escobar in the promotional material. 

They had to find a new location, and they chose Great Exuma, Bahamas, which was a remote parking lot where boats were stored. Material released on social media continued to promote the falsehood that the Festival was being hosted on Pablo Escobar's private island, with maps of the new site altered.

With 2 months before the festival, the Great Exuma site was empty and there was still no plan for accomodation, food, water or instructions for travellers. They were still promoting the festival on Instagram and encouraging people to buy tickets. 

Billy consulted with experienced Events Coordinators who told him it would cost $50 million to setup the festival in the limited time he had, and that is needed an extra year of planning.

The dates of the festival also collided with another event, the Exuma Regatta, which was a sailing race series that was popular locally. As a result, almost all the hotels and accomodation was booked out, leaving no accomodation options for people going to the Fyre Festival.

With just weeks to go, they hired labourers to build tents on the Great Exuma site. The only accomodation they could get with the time remaining was 'temporary tents.'

> Acts included: Pusha T, Tyga, Desiigner, Blink-182, Major Lazer, Disclosure, Migos, Rae Sremmurd, Kaytranada, Lil Yachty, Matoma, Klingande, Skepta, Claptone, Le Youth, Tensnake, Blond:ish, and Lee Burridge. In the days leading up to the festival, all of the aforementioned acts pulled out, with Major Lazer never confirming their attendance despite being advertised.

Days before the event, Billy desperately needed to raise more funds for the event so he encouraged patrons to deposit money in advance onto a digital RFID-equipped wristband to cover their purchases during the festival. However these were going to be useless since there was very poor wifi at the site.  

On the morning of the festival, it rained all over the temporary tents and mattresses, soaking all the temporary accomodation. People started arriving in the morning to witness the soaking mattresses and a sea of temporary tents that made the site look like some scary looking camp. They were given cheese sandwiches to eat, served in foam containers. 

During the night, people went to sleep in their tents which were open and a free-for-all. Theft and looting was commonplace, there was no lighting, no cellphone or internet service, no toilets, no food or water. The next day they went to the airport to try and get back home, but many of them had no cash (since it was promised that Fyre was a cashless event). Many people also were stranded at the airport without food or water, in intense heat.

After the event, Billy did not end up paying the labourers who tried to setup the new site. Many lawsuits were filed against Fyre, Billy McFarland and Ja Rule (around 8). Billy was also convicted of wire fraud and sentenced to jail.