Alex lost his memory after an automobile accident when he was 18. His brother, Marcus, told him about his life, but left out secrets of what really happened to them when they were younger.

[Tell Me Who I Am - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tell_Me_Who_I_Am)

Alex was involved in a moterbike accident when he was 18. When he woke up in the hospital, the only person he could recognise was his twin brother, Marcus. He was unable to recognise his mother at all.

When they arrived back to their house, Alex was introduced to the father who was quite stern and distant. Marcus explained the basics of the house, where things belonged, and how to do certain things like make toast. Eventually, Alex started asking more personal questions, like "does our family ever go on family vacations?" Marcus explained that the family goes on vacations, and even went on a vacation to France, showing some photographs of Marcus and Alex playing near the sand and water by a beach.

There were certain odd rules in the house. For example, the boys were never given a key to their own house, and had to sleep in a shed when they were young. The family also never sat and ate dinner together. Since Alex was not able to determine what a 'normal family' was, he thought all of this was completely normal.

One day, the father called the two boys into his office, asking for forgiveness to all he had done to them. Alex immediately accepted. However, Marcus made it clear that he would never forgive him. The father soon died. The mother followed, collapsing from a brain tumour. In her final moments, Marcus showed no grief either.

After both parents had passed away, the brothers were finally given full access to the house. They started clearing it out and going through old furniture, ornaments and momentos. In the attic, they found gifts that relatives had intended to give them, but their parents had hidden them away. They also uncovered a chest thath contained a photograph. The photograph was of both boys, naked in the beach, with their head portion of the photo torn off. Alex asked Marcus if they had been sexually assaulted, to which Marcus replied, 'Yes'. For another twenty years, Marcus did not relay any more information as the pain was too overhwelming for him to come forward and speak about it. Although Alex and Marcus did many activities together throughout their life, they never thoroughly discussed the details of the sexual assault together.    

Towards the end of the documentary film, Marcus opens up about the sexual assault. He explains how the mother would get them to 'play' with each other. She would fondle them and have her way with them, and regularly 'pass them off' to other family friends for thair sexual gratification as well. One night, Marcus was given to a well known artist in London, and he escaped the house by pushing the offender away and running down to the London tubes, where he took the train and walked home. His mother was shocked in the morning that he had returned, and without saying a word, the sexual assault stopped.

The film ends with the two brothers embracing one another, finally knowing the truth about what happened to them during their childhood.