Dee Dee Blanchard lived with her daughter, Gypsie Rose in Missouri, US. On the outside, Dee Dee Blanchard was a single mother looking after Gypsie Rose (who had many illnesses and diseases). However it turned out she had Munchausen by proxy.

[Murder of Dee Dee Blanchard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murder_of_Dee_Dee_Blanchard)

Gypsie was apparently born a healthy baby. Dee Dee Blanchard, Gypsie and their father was normal when growing up (the father didn't abandon them, just separated).  

In 2005, Hurricane Katrina devastated the area, and Dee Dee Blanchard claimed that Gypsie lost all her medical records in the flood, so there was no 'proof' of Gypsie's illnesses diagnoses. Dee Dee continued to tell people that Rose had numerous health conditions. For example:

- Sleep apnea
- Made Gypsie sit in a wheelchair when she didn't need to
- Muscular dystrophy
- Hearing and vision problems
- Seizures
- She underwent Several surgeries even when she didn't need them

Dee Dee also started homeschooling Gypsie because her 'illnesses were so severe.' Dee Dee always told people about Gypsie's illnesses and escape from Hurricane Katrina. The two got special treatment because of it. Gypsie would win awards, Foundations would give them free things like airline tickets or movieworld. In 2008 Habitat for Humanity built them a small home with a wheelchair ramp and hot tub.

Gypsie also looked sick. She was short, had almost no teeth, glasses, and a childlike voice. Dee Dee regularly shaved Gypsie's head to make it look like she was undergoing chemo. When they left the house, Dee Dee often took an oxygen tank and feeding tube with them.

A pediatric neurologist became suspicious of Gypsie's muscular dystrophy diagnosis. He ordered MRIs and blood tests, which found no abnormalities. In 2009, an anonymous caller told the police about Dee Dee's use of different names and birth dates for herself and her daughter, and suggested Gypsy was in better health than claimed.

She met a man, Godejohn, online who was kind of like a 'boyfriend.' They sent explicit messages to each other. One day she met with him and they both conspired to kill Dee Dee. Gypsie let Godejohn into the house, and he killed Dee Dee. Immediately after Godejohn and Gypsie had sex (wtf?). Then they fled with $4,000.

When Dee Dee was found, they believed Gypsie had been kidnapped and would be helpless without her wheelchair, medications, and support equipment like the oxygen tanks and feeding tube. However they were found on surveillance tapes, and traced IP addresses eventually led to their capture.

During trial, Gypsie made her case that she was a victim of child abuse. However she was found guilty and sentenced to jail.