Janelle Potters was a young women (probably in her 20s) who lived in Tenesee, US. She was extremely sheltered by her parents and had no job, or did not drive.

Janelle also had lots of trouble making friends. Eventually she started hanging out with some, including Billy Payne, and she developed a massive crush on him.

[https://abcnews.go.com/US/social-media-feud-led-murder-young-tennessee-couple/story?id=34346840](https://abcnews.go.com/US/social-media-feud-led-murder-young-tennessee-couple/story?id=34346840)

Jenelle also started using Social Media (Facebook) to keep an eye on her friend's activities. Billy Payne started dating a women named Billie Jean, and they moved in together. Jenelle was extremely jealous of this.

Jamie Curd was Jenelle's cousin, and those two started dating (even though Jenelle was really into Billy Payne).  Jenelle started faking harrassment incidents (for example, she wrote her name and Billy Payne's name on a rock and threw it at the house, claiming Billy Payne and his new girlfriend were the ones throwing the rocks). Jenelle was also recieveing anonymous threats on Facebook and cyberbullying, and she also claimed this was from Billy Payne and Billie Jean.

Billy Payne and Billie Jean had a young son together. Jenelle, Billy Payne and Billie Jean started having arguments on facebook and they all unfriended each other.

Jan. 31, 2012, Billy Payne and Billie Jean were found murdered.

Potter's father was an ex-CIA agent. Jamie Curd confessed that he knew about the murders and that Potter's father did it. When police started investigating, it appeared that there was a conspiracy relating another CIA agent, named "Chris" who was threatening to kill Jenelle 

It turns out Janelle was faking everything, she was faking the CIA Agent "Chris" and his threats to kill her, she was faking that Billy Payne and Billie Jean were harrassing her. She stated that they were jealous because she was too pretty.