Gabriel Fernandez (February 20, 2005 – May 24, 2013) was an eight-year-old boy from Palmdale, California who was abused and tortured over a period of months that ultimately ended in his fatal beating on May 22, 2013 which led to his death two days later.

[Murder of Gabriel Fernandez](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murder_of_Gabriel_Fernandez)

Gabriel was a healthy, happy boy who was not living with his parents (he was either living with his Uncle/Aunt or Grandma/Gandpa) for the first few years of his life. In 2012, when Gabriel was around 7, he was given custody to his biological Mum (Pearl Fernandez), and went to live with her and her boyfriend (Isauro Aguirre). Pearl only wanted custody of Gabriel so she could receive more welfare benefits.

While Gabriel was living with them he suffered from physical and mental abuse. The abuse included:

- Being forced to eat cat litter and feces
- Forced to eat his own vomit
- Regularly beaten which caused broken bones
- Burned in various parts of the body
- Shot in various areas of the body including the face and groin with a BB gun
- Forced to wear female clothing
- Pepper sprayed
- Burned with cigarettes
- Given cold baths
- Forced to eat spoiled or expired foods

In addition to this, Gabriel was locked in a small cupboard for extended periods of time, for months, and forced to sleep bound and gagged while inside the cupboard.

On May 22, 2013, Pearl called 9-1-1 to report that Gabriel, was not breathing. In reality, Gabriel was beaten so badly by both his parents that he had really bad injuring leading to his death.

The reason this case because very well known is because it exposed a lot of issues with the child protection/health system in America. Several times child protective services were called to the house or made aware of the issues, but no one took action.