Jennifer Pan had parents who were strict (in the Asian way). They had high expectations and wanted good grades or some sort of accomplishments from Pam. When Pam was 24+, she paid $10,000 to hire a professional hitman to kill her parents. 

[Jennifer Pan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jennifer_Pan)

Jennifer was born in Canada, along with her younger brother. both parents were refugees from Vietnam. They had high expectations for their children.

Jennifer Pam took piano lessons since she was 4, and also learnt figure-skating. However she broke her knee in an accident and could no longer figure-skate. Her parents closely monitored her extra-curricular activities and didn't let her have any fun because she had to focus on her 'academic activities.' At the age of 22, "she had never gone to a club, been drunk, visited a friend's cottage or gone on vacation without her family" - despite many people ALSO not growing up with these kinds of things. 

Jennifer recieved average grades and started forging her report cards to make it look like she got higher grades. She did not have the grades to get into Ryerson University, but she told her parents  that she was accepted. She pretended to attend by going to the library, sitting in cafes and working.

She met her boyfriend Daniel Wong who was a drug dealer and moved in with him, she told her parents that she was staying in on-campus accomodation with classmates. 

One day the mother followed her and found out that she was lying. They told her that she should finish high school and apply to university for real. She was forbidden to see the boyfriend but they spoke secretly anyway.

Daniel Wong no longer wanted to persue Jennifer Pan. He started seeing another girl. Jennifer tried to manipulate him into staying, by saying that some men broke into her house and gang-raped her, and that his new girlfriend mailed her a bullet. 

In 2010, Jennifer decided to hire a hitman and asked Daniel Wong for help. Together they hired a professional. They estimated they would inherit $500,000. Pam left the door unlocked, and 3 men entered the house pretending to 'rob' the family. They then shot the parents. 

During interogations her story was full of holes, after some time she admitted to hiring hitman but claimed that she hired them to kill her, not her parents. No one believed her.