Due to the high housing costs and tuition fees, many students in California have found themselves homeless and living in their cars.

Up to 5% of college students have been attending classes while simultaneously being homeless. This number is much higher in community colleges, where students have fewer financial means - around 1 in 5 community college students are homeless. Sometimes students have moved across the country to California, leaving being their parents and friends, only to not have enough money for the high housing costs, tuition fees and other expenses that come with studying in California, leaving thousands of students in the US without permanent accommodation. 

One man in particular recounts that every night he sleeps in his car in the carpark near his college campus. He explains how he is too ashamed or embarrassed to show that he is homeless. At the end of each day, he drives around for 30-40 minutes and then comes back to the carpark where he sleeps. That way, he does not feel anxious waiting for everyone to leave. In the morning he wakes up around 6am to drive around again (to allow for people to arrive to work and study), and then he pretends to arrive on campus normally like every other student. Because of this, it is extremely hard to get a good night's sleep, and this can easily affect study performance and mood - for example, feeling too depressed to attend classes in the first place. At night there had been instances where troublemakers out at night had tried to harass him by trying to get into his car. Other nights, the police would knock loudly on his door to wake him up and tell him he was trespassing. 

Anthony White, who used to live in his car, started working at the Food and Nutrition Center at Palomar University. Here, he organises a food pantry for students who are having financial difficulty. They are allowed to enter the Food and Nutrition Center to pick up food for free. According to Anthony, there are so many factors that can make it difficult for students (living conditions, jobs, debt) - food it just one of these, and they are happy to help in any little way that they can.

Stephanie, another member who had experience being homeless, recounts how her rent was raised so high that she and her husband could no longer afford to live in their house. They had no other choice but to start living in their car while they were still studying, since they found it impossible to get accepted for an apartment with a low credit score.    

In California, a major contribution to the homelessness issue is the high cost of housing. It is extremely expensive to live in California, and the living wage has not increased proportionately to keep up with the cost of living. In other words, the gap between what people make and spend is constantly increasing. Sometimes students who are on a scholarship will only receive the payments for the cost of their tuition, leaving them with no money for accommodation. Studying full time also makes it harder to find a job that pays a wage that is liveable, since a lot of jobs with flexible hours are only casual or part-time. Studying also often means incurring years of debt in order to complete the degree. Another factor includes the types of degrees that are acquired. Many students studying particular degrees (such as arts degrees) are left without a job that is related to the field that they have studied. 

In Chicago, Emily Edwards supports students who are in financial stress by providing supportive accommodation through the Dax Program. These are similar to shared housing where students share a space together. Once a month, she visits to discuss room-mate related details with the students such as who does particular chores.

Devin Thompson was a student who found himself travelling between a storage unit with 2 bags to different hotel rooms each night. He was part of the LGBT group which was looked down upon in the religion practiced as he was growing up. After 8 months of being homeless, the Dax Program was able to help him get a job managing a storage unit. 

Part of the American Dream involves the idea that anyone can be successful if they really work hard enough for it. However, one challenge or one stumble can be enough to leave you behind and make it very difficult to recover. The issue of homelessness among students is becoming more known, and some initiatives have been taking place at Universities across the US to start increasing the support given to homeless college students.