Grizzly man is about the life and death of Timothy Treadwell. He lived an alternative lifestyle, mostly with bears, out in the Alaskan winderness during Summer months. On his final visit he took his girlfriend, Amie Huguenard, and at some point during the trip they were killed and eaten by a grizzly bear on October 6, 2003.

[Grizzly Man](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grizzly_Man)

Over 100 hours of footage was found from his camera, which had the last 5 years of his life. The footage showed many moments where he would talk to himself or directly to the camera, mostly with bears walking in the background. With his interactions with the camera he would think out loud or express deep thoughts that he had. 

Treadwell said he was protecting bears from poachers, however it was later stated that there were no records of poaches in the area he was in. He became so close to the bears that he could touch them, pet them, or talk to them at close range. Park rangers shared multiple opinions on Treadwell's close contact with the bears. One of them express that Treadwell's close and direct contact with them possibly confused them. Others stated that is possibly put bears in more danger, because bears started familiarising themselves with human contact, making it more likely for them to approach other humans.

Treadwell usually left the park at the end of summer but that particular year her stayed into early October. This put him and Huguenard at greater risk, as in this period, bears are more aggressive about searching for food to store up calories for hibernation during the winter. 

Sometime in October 2003, Treadwell was camping with Amie, when a bear approached, and the video camera captured an audio record of the bear attack. The attack and killings took place in camp the night before Willy Fulton (the pilot) flew in to pick Tim and Amie up. When the bear was found and killed by park rangers, four garbage bags containing human remains were removed and flown out by helicopter.

[http://www.yellowstone-bearman.com/Tim_Treadwell.html](http://www.yellowstone-bearman.com/Tim_Treadwell.html)

Long read, but this is more information on the attack, from the link above:

"I believe Tim left the tent and walked towards the bear a short distance, speaking softly to it as he had on numerous occasions, encouraging the bear to leave. The bear keeps its distance, and when it appears that this will be like any other encounter, Tim decides to tape at least the audio portion for use in future presentations, yelling out to Amie to turn the camera on, which startles the bear, who had been still up to this point, and triggers the attack. Up until that point, the bear had probably been sizing Tim up and making a judgment of threat level.

Amie turns the camera on and asks if the bear is still out there. Tim then yells for Amie to “Get out here! I’m getting killed out here!”. Amie leaves the tent (the sound of a zipper and the tent door being opened) and sees Tim on the ground struggling with his head in the bear’s mouth and yells for him to “play dead!”.

Bears often attack, or defend themselves by first going for the head in an attempt to take out the opponents weapon; the face, mouth and head. Bear number #141 had worn, broken canines and was unable to make use of this tactic, along with the fact that the human head is just too large to fit directly inside of a bears mouth. “Often ripping and tearing the scalp, ears, and face”. (Herrero 1985, et al)

In my opinion, Amie was able to drive the bear away initially, because this was an older bear who had become conditioned when dealing with younger, stronger, more dominant bears by moving away from the food it had just obtained after being challenged, and was probably startled by a second animal, Amie in this case, suddenly appearing and making a lot of noise.

After scaring the bear away, Amie and Tim have a short conversation while determining where the bear is, and whether it is still nearby. Amie is cautious and afraid, the tent is a secure refuge in her mind. Amie then walks over to Tim, and based on training in the hospital no doubt told Tim to lay still, but is then tested and driven away by the bear, and at this point in the attack I believe Tim realized that this was not a typical bear encounter, and that playing dead was not going to work and the wrong response, yelling at Amie to “hit the bear!”.

Again, I believe this older male bear had become conditioned through repetition. In the past when this bear had been driven away from a freshly caught salmon or other food item, the need to eat and put on weight had no doubt caused this bear to then test the true strengths of the thief and attempt to re-take its meal. Hundreds of video taped encounters like this have been filmed over the years with many different bears. Tim had even filmed such encounters.

Once the bear had driven Amie off, I believe the bears predatory instincts took over and decided to drag Tim off to a more secure area after Amie returned and began aggressively attacking it with the frying pan, just as the bear would have done when dealing with other more dominant bears and a freshly caught salmon or moose calf."