In 2018, 10 members of the Burari family from Delhi, India were found hanging from their lounge room ceiling in what appeared to be a Mass Suicide, and 1 found strangled on the ground of an adjacent room.

[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Burari_deaths](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Burari_deaths)

## Discovery of Crime Scene

At around 7am of July 1, 2018, Gurcharan Singh, a neighbour of the Burari family felt suspicious when one of the family members that they usually take morning walks with did not turn up. The shop that the Burari family managed underneath their house Delhi also was not opened (the store usually opened everyday at 5-5:30am). When the neighbours went to investigate they found the door unlocked and upon walking up the stairs found that 10 of the Burari family members were hanging from the ceiling. The police were called at around 7:30am.

This was an extreme shock to the surrounding street, and many neighbours gathered around the house. The crime scene was even filmed by a member of the public who entered the residence before the police arrived.

Police were interviewed and explained that it was one of the worst scenes they had heard of and seen. When they entered the building and saw the bodies they explained that they were hanging from a grill structure at the top of the roof, and were also extremely close together so it was difficult to walk through them. They explained that when officers entered the room they were in such shock that they couldn't even count the number bodies that were hanging when first viewing the scene. Some of them were blindfolded with their hands and feet tied. The eldest member of the family, the grandma, was found strangled in the bedroom. 

The victims were determined to be from 3 generations:

- Narayani Devi (75 yrs)
- Narayani Devi's 3 children: Bhavnesh (50 yrs), Lalit (45 yrs), and Pratibha (57 yrs)
- Bhavnesh's Wife and 3 children: Savita (48 yrs), Monu (23 yrs), Nitu (25 yrs) and Dhruv (15 yrs).
- Lalit's Wife and child: Teena (42 yrs) and Shivam (15 yrs).
- Pratibha's only child: Priyanka (33 yrs).

## Initial Investigation

The police were not sure whether this was a murder, a suicide, or a murder-suicide. They had a look at the security camera footage from the night before to see if any intruders had entered the house. They found members of the Burari family themselves bringing in strange materials into the house (that ended up being used to tie them up and hang them). Whether or not they realised this was unsure. The possibility of an intruder was ruled out, so the police narrowed the options to be a suicide (which they were all participants in), or an inside job, where one or multiple members of the family planned this and killed themselves with the other family members. During the Police investigation, they also found the dog tied up on the roof of the house. They also found diary journals and some essence that pointed towards some sort of ritual taking place. 

Family and friends were interviewed and they were all extremely surprised and reluctant to believe that the family would all kill themselves in this way. None of them believed that this was a possibility, they were all extremely bright, always looked out for others. The grandchildren had futures ahead of them and were doing extremely well. Priyanka, the daughter of Pratibha, was also about to get engaged.

While the police were investigating, thousands were standing at the front of the house and alleyway where the hanging took place. It became extremely big news that spread across the neighbourhood. The police organised 9 ambulance vehicles to arrive and pick up the bodies (1 ambulance for each body). However it was very difficult to line of the vehicles with the crowd that was in the way. Workers needed to bring each of the bodies down one by one. According to one of them, it was very difficult because the bodies were hanging so close to each other, so you could not take one down without touching/disturbing the others. 

## Media Coverage

There was mass Media coverage of the event. The news sensationalized the deaths and tried to make it more 'interesting' by adding conspiracies that did not make much sense. For example, they pointed to the 11 pipes pointing outside the home, and hyped the possibility that those 11 pipes could have been used for the souls to escape as they were being hung. The man who installed the pipes was interviewed, and he explained that the family just wanted better ventilation and did not actually tell them to install 11 pipes - it was just a random number they chose, and they chose different shapes because that was all that was available. 

## Lalit and Bhopal Singh

Family and friends were interviewed about Bhopal Singh, the husband of Narayani Devi and Father of Bhavnesh, Lalit and Pratibha. According to them he was stern and strict but extremely kind and helpful. In 2004, Lalit was involved in a traumatic accident where he was pushed under several sheets of plywood which were lit on fire. After the incident he did not talk for 3 years (whether this was because of his vocal chords or because he chose to, this is unknown for sure). However the was no evidence of vocal chord damage.

When Bhopal died in 2007, the family mourned, and Lalit became the new 'head' of the family. Lalit started speaking again, and was able to convince the family that he was able to regain his voice by the power of Bohpal's spirit. Lalit started saying that Bohpal's spirit was communicating with him from the dead and giving him instructions for the family. The instructions even included daily routines and any home duties that certain members had to perform, possibly in an attempt to control them somehow. Lalit would record these in a diary, and the family would follow them. This occurred over the 11 year timespan up until June of 2018. During the investigation police and psychiatrists agreed that he had some form of Psychosis or delusional thinking, which was influencing the rest of the family who just followed.

## Leading up to the deaths

Priyanka, the daughter of Pratibha, was also about to get engaged. There had even been a video of them all dancing during her engagement party, 10 days prior to the bodies being discovered. The video showed them dancing in the exact place they were hung. Family members expressed how it was such a shock that they were dancing with the Burari family in that location completely unaware of what was about to happen. Other family and friends who were at the party expressed that Lalit was more quiet and unresponsive than usual. This suggested that he was formulating the plan on how to manipulate the family and eliminate them, since the engagement party was a trigger that suggested he could not longer control the family since the grandchildren would start leaving to start their lives. If he was exposed, he would no longer be able to control the family.

Lalit told the family that Bhopal wanted them to perform the 'Banyan Tree Worship' for the family's wellbeing. This would require them to replicate the hanging roots of the trees, and they would need to hang themselves to do this. In the diaries, Lalit wrote that while they were hanging, they had to completely empty their minds, and they would be saved - and then they would be able to help untie each other after the ritual was completed. It is unclear what actually happened in the family home on the night of the 30 June 2018 between 1am-4am. The grandmother (Narayani Devi) could have been killed first, and Lalit could have tied everyone's hands and feet and helped hang them each. It appears that Lalit was the last to hang himself - possibly ensuring that the whole family was dead before doing so. What occurred for sure still remains a mystery. 

Psychiatrists explain that if Mental Health was spoken about more openly, someone could have been more educated about delusions, psychosis, and other mental health issues. If someone was able to identify the issues going on in the family, this would have been prevented. The deaths were ruled as accidental deaths due to a ritual gone wrong.