The Mosasaur was a dominating predator in the ocean during the cretaceous period. It was 45 feet long which was equivalent to the size of a greyhound bus. It weighed 8 tonnes and could easily swallow an adult human whole. Since there were no ice caps at the time, the sea levels had risen to cover most of the US in water.

Mike Everhard, a Curator at the Sternberg Museum, went to visit a region of land in Kansas. Around 85 million years ago, it used to be the bottom of the sea. Hundreds of thousands of years of microfossils built up overtime to create a chalk formation, called the 'Kansas Chalk'. Inside the chalk formation are many fossils belonging to the Mosasaur.

When the Mosasaur was first discovered, a skull was found in the Meuse River in Holland. Some people thought it was the jaws of a crocodile, lizard, or even a dragon. The creature was named 'Mosasaur' after the Meuse River, where the skull was found. Over the next 80 years, scientists found a pattern that in every corner of the globe, they found mosasaur bones. This meant that it was a predator that dominated the planet.

Scientists discovered that the Mosasaur originated from land. They used to be lizards but eventually evolved to survive in the water. In 1989, a fossil hunter named Van Turner found a strange looking skeleton and took it to Mike Polcyn, a Palaeontologist at Southern Methodist University. It was recognised to be a Dallasaurus, which was a missing link between the Mosasaur and their tiny lizard ancestors.

The Cretoxyrhina (also known as the Ginsu shark) is one of Mosasaur's enemies. The giant shark reaches about 25 feet and is known for being able to 'slice and dice' its victims. The Ginsu shark can cut animals in half and can cut straight through bone. There is fossil evidence of the Mosasaur being severed and cut by the shark.

There are many ways that the Mosasaur evolved to be able to live within the sea, and find and catch its food:

- **Breathing** - The Mosasaur can spend long hours in the sea. They still must come up onto land to breathe air.
- **Hearing** - In the water, the Mosasaur's sense of hearing is 38 times stronger.
- **Sense of smell** - Since it's difficult to see within murky waters, the Mosasaur developed a forked tongue, which meant they could smell in two different directions.
- **Pressure senses** - The Mosasaur has a set of nerves that run down the side of their upper jaw where the snout is. This allows them to detect the pressure waves given off by prey. This is similar to how a modern-day killer whale uses echo locations.
- **Speed** - Catching prey itself requires speed. The Mosasaur has a large tail in the shape of a paddle, which can help them reach a top speed of 30 miles an hour. Its tail is not good for sustained high speed chases, only for quick strikes. This means that the Mosasaur still must hide itself and ambush its prey.
- **Control** - The two smaller paddles on the sides of their tail creates drag which lets them turn and control their direction.
- **Sense of Balance** - For land animals, their Inner ear controls their sense of balance, so they don't slip during a high-speed chase. However, in the water, animals can swim in any direction. Animals that have a high inner ear sensitivity in the water could get dizzy more easily. Overtime, the Mosasaur evolved to have a lesser sensitive inner ear.

In the lab, scientists replicated the bite of the Mosasaur using a mechanical machine and three levers to control the three different basic motions of the bite.

- **Motion 1** - The jaw opening and closing.
- **Motion 2** - The jaw moving backwards and forwards.
- **Motion 3** - The use of their pterygoid teeth. The pterygoids are an additional set of teeth that rests at the top of the Mosasaur's mouth. This is also known as the 'terminator teeth', and no other ocean animal has been found to have them. This set of teeth worked independently to move the prey backwards into the throat.

To test the simulation of the bite, scientists set up tests with fake 'prey' to see the affect that the jaw motion had. It was found that the Mosasaur can consume 4 feet of flesh in one bite. This meant they could eat a 20-foot animal in 5 bites, or an adult human in a single bite.

The teeth also act as vertical hooks to hold the flesh in place. When they tested it on a live simulated prey (a dead fish), the fish was immediately stuck on the teeth. The simulation showed that once the Mosasaur had prey trapped within its teeth, it could swallow it whole and did not need to fully chew the animal.

The Mosasaur may have also engaged in snout fights with other Mosasaurs to defend their breeding or feeding territory. One particular fossil showed that one of the Mosasaur's neck was broken, and the skull had been clamped down on.