On the Dark Web, many markets operate where you can buy and sell illegal goods. One example is AlphaBay, which operated as a Black Market site. At the time of its operation, it had over 250,000 listings. According to Paul Craig, a Chief Hacking Officer, things that you could buy on the Black Market include things like passports, drugs, or weapons. You can buy a UK passport with the name of your choice for $1000 British pounds. ID cards, driver’s license, Colombian Cocaine, weapons such as AK47s are all included in the list of things that can be bought. AlphaBay was a very well-designed marketplace that looked legit despite the products being illegal.

[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AlphaBay](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AlphaBay)

AlphaBay is almost exactly like eBay, but the only difference is that the site is anonymous, and this is what helps users to be able to trade illicit goods without getting caught. AlphaBay looks like a simple ecommerce site - things are sorted by category, and there are hundreds of pages - each listing has a photo or description. People can comment on how the item was secretly shipped.

These sites are a lot harder for police to track, and therefore, shut down. It does not take many people to run a black marketplace. People who run these websites are generally in IT and are NOT drug lords. However, local drug dealers often use these sites to get a bigger return on their investment - rather than sticking with face-to-face local drug dealings, having a platform to sell drugs online increases their pool of potential customers. They take the amazon business model and sell their drugs all around the world, instead of dealing with the same 10 or 15 customers.

In 2017, OPERATION BAYONET was formed. This was a multinational law enforcement operation which targeted taking down AlphaBay and its operators. Participating countries included the US, UK, Hong Kong, Cyprus, Thailand, Spain and many more. During the AlphaBay investigation, investigators discovered that the main admin account running the site was called Alpha02. Investigators created fake user accounts on the AlphaBay website. When creating them, they would get a 'Welcome new user' email, which they traced. They discovered that the email address appeared to belong to a Canadian man. Alexandre Cazes, who was born on October 19, 1991, was the man behind the admin account - he was a computer genius with an IQ of 142. According to his LinkedIn profile, he founded a computer company (EBX Tech) at just 17 years old. His profile also listed numerous IT skills, including Cybersecurity and Web Development. EBX Tech, the company Alexandre Cazes started when he was 17, was inactive since Jan 2015, after AlphaBay was launched.

Initially, AlphaBay was a very small website. He started with illicitly obtaining credentials and selling credit card info. Data was also being sold online for a very cheap price - personal accounts only went for a few dollars each, and these would be bought frequently. In 2015, AlphaBay was put into the spotlight and became popular. Quickly, it was dominated by drugs. From 2015 to 2017, the site made the equivalent of over US $1 Billion in cryptocurrency. AlphaBay's operator charged 2-4% commission fee on all transactions, earning about US$32,000 a day. The website served over 100,000 users. An analogy that was brought forward included comparing Alexandre Cazes to the main character from Breaking Bad, Walter White, who started in the TV series as a good, outstanding citizen. He eventually turned into a horrible criminal. More than money, it was the thrill of running a dangerous business that seems to be a big motivator for him to continue. Investigators also explain that some people start these marketplaces due to ideological reasons. They believe the government shouldn't tell you what you can and cannot do. When they eventually see the money coming in, they get addicted to the feeling and this can also lead to their downfall.

Alexandre Cazes had a Thai wife. He owned 2 houses next to each other, and then bought another one worth hundreds of millions of baht. He was also renting other houses that he owned. He had a Lamborghini (the most expensive model at the time), a Porsche, a Mini Cooper, and a BMW motorcycle. He was so rich he could spend US$30,000 to US$47,000 on a single meal and was able to live luxuriously.

The investigation led to Bangkok, Thailand. Local authorities were alerted, and this also included members of The Narcotics Suppression Bureau and the Narcotics Intelligence Division. This included an investigator who was involved with drug investigations for over 30 years. In 2008, when Alexandre was 17, he posted on an online forum. That email he used to post on the forum was the same email address used in the welcome message for new users on AlphaBay. He also used the same names between the normal web and the dark web. His history activity was used to link his different personas and eventually track him down. Investigators explain that nothing you put is completely deleted and can act as breadcrumbs that can lead back to you.

Investigators explain that Alexandre made Thailand his hideout for a reason. Many countries have a law that allows the government to collect data from the internet to protect their national security. This is also known as ‘Lawful Interception’. Thailand has no such law, so it is considered a heaven for many hackers. In 2014, the Sony Pictures entertainment database was hacked by a group called the 'Guardians of the peace'. Personal information of staff members, email conversations, and unreleased movies were leaked. This hack was traced back to Thailand, in a University and hotel in Bangkok. However, investigators explain that this will soon change - a new cyber security law has been enacted as of March 2019, which gives state cyber agencies extensive access to internet use data. Activists have called it a ‘cyber martial law’.

According to investigators, Cybercrime caused US$600 billion losses globally. It is extremely difficult to trace buyers and sellers based on monetary transactions. In other words, it is really hard to prove that you were the one buying the illegal items on the dark web. This is partly because the dark web can only be accessed through anonymous web browsers - the most popular one being the Onion Router, or Tor. Tor can be downloaded easily online for free. On the surface web, you would usually see sites ending in .Net, .Org, or .com. On the dark web, you will only see a string of random characters, then .onion at the end. Because of this, there is no way to track the domain name. Tor was originally a by-product of the Office of Naval Research for intelligence agents or spies to communicate back to the US government anonymously. Other use cases that it was used for would be if a journalist needed to research things while they were in a foreign country, where those things would be censored by that country's government.

The Tor network by itself is not considered harmful. When you add cryptocurrency, which has the same level of anonymity and privacy, these two things together allow you to list and get money from products all anonymously. Bitcoin is the most popular crypto currency. Growth of crypto has gone up as the growth of the dark web increased.

AlphaBay is not the first dark web market to gain infamy. The Silk Road is another notable one. The Silk Road was the first dark web marketplace to use both Tor and Bitcoin together. It tried to provide an end-to-end anonymous platform. It combined network anonymity, through the use of Tor so that an observer cannot tell which machine is connecting to which server to do certain transactions. It changed the face of Black market e-commerce. The Silk Road was taken down by the FBI after 2 years, and its American operator was sentence to life in prison without parole.

A raid operation was planned to arrest Alexandre at his home in Bangkok. The police orchestrated a car accident in front of his house. When Alexandre emerged to check on his supercars, they quickly arrested him. Since this was a very time sensitive operation (most people react to accidents within seconds), they had a limited timeframe to execute their plan. Once he was arrested, officers attempted to take control of the AlphaBay website. They started inspecting his electronics. He had a key password which led to the 'wallet' for the AlphaBay website, and they needed to decrypt the master key from his computer. He was to be extradited to the US and charged with 16 criminal offenses. Operation Bayonet's success was not reported in the media. To outsiders, AlphaBay simply went offline.

Many people thought AlphaBay had committed an exit scam. The website was still up, but people were now unable to take any money out of it. The police did this for a reason - to lead people who were using AlphaBay to a different website. Many of them went to another site called Hansa - but police had already taken control of Hansa, so they gathered information on all vendors from both market's servers. Once both sites were down, posts on twitter were released and an update was explained in a press conference updating the public on the situation.

A week after his arrest, Alexandre died in custody from an apparent suicide.