The Titanic was, at the time, the largest cruise liner and was meant to depart from from Southampton (South East England) to New York City (US). This documentary film goes over the construction of the ship. Titanic was 269.06m long. Her total height, from the base to the top of the bridge, was 32m. he construction involved many layers:

[Titanic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Titanic)

Titanic was 269.06m long. Her total height, from the base to the top of the bridge, was 32m. he construction involved many layers:

Boat Deck - The deck where lifeboats were kept. This was where the lifeboats were lowered into the North Atlantic during the early hours of 15 April, 1912. 

A Deck - reserved exclusively for First Class passengers and contained First Class cabins, the First Class lounge, smoke room, reading and writing rooms and Palm Court.

B Deck, the Bridge Deck - which housed more First Class passengers, and held some restaurants and luxury dining facilities for First Class passengers. 

C Deck, the Shelter Deck, for third class passengers, and the Second Class library.

D Deck, the Saloon Deck, also for third class passengers.

E Deck, the Upper Deck, also for third class passengers plus berths for cooks, seamen, stewards and [trimmers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coal_trimmer). 

F Deck, the Middle Deck, was the last complete deck and mainly accommodated Second and Third Class passengers as well as some of the crew. It housed the Third Class dining saloon, a swimming pool, Turkish bath and kennels.

G Deck, the Lower Deck, was the lowest complete deck that carried passengers, and had the lowest portholes, just above the waterline. Food was also stored here. The deck was interrupted at several points by [orlop](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orlop) (partial) decks over the boiler, engine and turbine rooms.

The Orlop Decks and the Tank Top below that were on the lowest level of the ship, below the waterline. These decks were used as cargo spaces, while the Tank Top part of the ship's hull kept the ship's boilers, engines, turbines and electrical generators, which passengers were prohibited from seeing.