To watch the full Youtube playlist, <a href="[https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLTNCncvRAjmxR-8eSBazfegc2NJLfl716](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLTNCncvRAjmxR-8eSBazfegc2NJLfl716)" target="_blank">click here</a>.

## August 1993

General Roméo Antonius Dallaire was the commander of the UN assistance mission for Rwanda. Dallaire needed to enforce a peace agreement between the Rwanda government in Kigali and a rebel army positioned behind a cease file line to the North of Rwanda. 

The rebels were made of up mostly Tutsis, who were an ethnic minority group who had been persecuted for decades. One of the rebels explained that some of them had been refugees since 1959, and had witnessed many killings of Tutsi civilians throughout different parts of Rwanda. They focused on the idea that there was a need for change in the country. There was tension between the Tutsis and the Hutus, another ethic group that made up the majority. They had been ruling the country since the independence from Belgium, in the early 1960s. Under the UN peace mission, the Hutus would be forced to share power with the Tutsi rebels.

Commander Dellaire setup up his command center in a run down Kigali hotel. According to Dellaire's military assistent (Maj. Brent Beardsley), they had very little knowledge of the background to Rwanda's history (since it's independence from Beligium). Mysterious riots and assassinations occured as a test of Dellaire's ability to keep the peace. Instances of rumours, and stories of a third force of killers also surfaced but these could not be confirmed at the time.

<br>

### January, 1994

An informant, who was a trainer from the Interahamwe movement (the alleged third force) revealed that a secret group of Hutu extremists were plotting to derail the peace agreement, and 'exterminate' their enemies (the Tutsis). They were planning to attack Tutsis and all the moderate Hutu Leaders, as well as some of Dellaire's Belgium troups from the peacekeeping force. The reasoning behind this was that by killing the peacekeeping troups, the UN and Belgium would decide to abort the mission and leave Rwanda. 

Dellaire sent an urgent notice to the UN to inform them of the informant's information, that the Hutu extremists planned to exterminate all Tutsis in Kigali, and all Belgian peacekeepers. In the letter he informed them of his intent to take action via a raid within the next 36 hours. When the letter was recieved in New York, UN members were concerned that the letter was being used to manipulate them (in regards to how information can be intercepted and changed to manipulate the other party). The UN ordered Dellaire not to take any action himself, or to take action the would require the UN itself to intervene. Furthermore, he was asked to share the informant's secrets to the Rwanda government itself. However, the Rwanda government had close ties with the Hutu extremists.

During an interview with Dellaire, he explained that the UN's mindset at that time was to not repeat another 'Mogadishu'. By this, they were referring to the shooting down of the Black Howk in Mogadishu 3 months earlier, where 18 American soldiers died in a UN mission. This event changed Washington's outlook on how to deal with peacekeeping missions, especially in Africa. The UN consistently reassured everyone involved that Rwanda was safe. However, in the background, the Hutu extremists imported thousands of machettes, prepared deathlists, and started targetting their political opponents. 

Towards the days leading up to the start of the genocide, new bodies started appearing on the streets as Hutu extremists started their murdering streak.

<br>

### April 6, 1994

In central Kigali, Lora Lane, an American diplomat was having dinner with a few friends and family when a huge explosion was heard. The explosion originated from Kigali airport, where the Hutu's president's airplane was shot down by a missile. There are many theories to this day to who shot down the plane - some thought it was the Tutsis, other thought the Hutu Extremists did it on purpose as an excuse to start the genocide. After this event occurred, Delaire asked for assistance again from the UN. The UN responded again by telling him not to respond with any force.  

<br>

### April 7, 1994

On April 7th, around 4am, gunshots and screams were heard at the first instance of the Rwanda genocide. UN Peacekeepers were informed to keep Agathe Uwilingiyimana (Madame Magath) safe. Madame Magath was the moderate Prime Minister at the time. While UN Peacekeepers guarded Madame Magath at her home, Hutu extremists started to surround her house. The UN troups were given orders to not use force or interfere. Eventually, the extremists stormed the Prime Minister's compound. Peace Keepers were still informed to try to negotiate with the Rwandans, however they ended up surrendering their weapons. 10 Belgium troups were taken hostage, and Madame Magath was executed. No military action was taken to rescue the troups.

That morning, Dellaire tried to go to the extremist's army compound to speak with Théoneste Bagosora, a Rwandan military officer, to attempt to understand what was going on. Bagosora played a key role in the genocide - he had once vowed to launch an apocolypse of the Tutsis, and is known as the 'architect' for the Rwanda genocide. Dellaire also wanted to confront Bagosora about the Belgium troups, but all Belgium troups ended up being killed by the extremists. The US government ordered the immediate evacuation of all US citizens in Rwanda at the time. Lora Lane was responsible for assisting with the rescue on the ground. Additionally, Lora Lane wanted to stay back and keep the doors of the UN embassy open for anyone who needed a safehaven from the violence, however this request was refused.

Two UN observers and a priest went to a site where a group of Tutsies were inside a Kigali church. They were all grabbed by extremists and put up against the wall with a rifle to their necks. Their identity cards were burned, and the victims were chopped up with machettes by the extremist malicia. Inside the church itself, there were about 150 people. 15 people were alive and the rest had been attacked with machettes and killed.

<br>

### April 9, 1994

1000 frence and belgium paratroopers seized the Kigali airport to get the ex-patriots out of Rwanda. Troups and reporters from the press arrived at a hospital, where Tutsis had been hiding for 3 days. they emerged requesting the troups for help, but when it was clear the troups would not help, they begged the reporters instead. It was ordered the reporters or troups were not allowed to evacuate any Rwandans. They were only focused on evacuating 'White' people.

<br>

### April 10th, 1994

Carl Wilkens, a man who decided to stay behind to help shelter his colleagues, was the only American left in Rwanda. The United States pushed for the withdrawal of the entire peacekeeping force. General Henry Anyidoho, the Deputy UN Commander in Rwanda, wanted to tell the UN that they did not think the mission should be closed. Once all Americans were evacuated, Hutu extremists were able to start carrying out the next phase of their plan. An extremist Hutu radio station told Hutus to eliminate their Tutsi neighbours.  

<br>

### April 15th, 1994

A 12 year old child followed their parents to a church where 5,000 other Tutsis seeked refuge. Hutus knew of this information and were told to eliminate the Tutsis that were seeking shelter. When they arrived at the church, they started shootings at the Tutsis, who were only able to defend themselves with rocks. The 12 year old recalled that many Tutsis were hacked by machettes, and she had no choice but to hide among the pile of dead bodies. When they left, she laid their for a long time. At night, the dogs would come to eat the bodies. She then started to hide in a small room where she stayed and slept for 43 days. Weeks later, a BBC reporter visited the scene and was able to take some footage of the devastation that took place, include the bodies that had been piled up against the walls.

<br>

### Red Cross Hospital, Kigali

The Red Cross did not leave Rwanda and chose to continue assisting injured Tutsis. During one of the rescue missions, Hutu extremists cornered a Red Cross van killing 6 of the patients. The Red Cross chose to expose the event publicly and were featured on different news sites around the world. This embarred the extremists, and through negotiation the Red Cross were able to get safe free passage around Rwanda. This helped the Red Cross help save 65,000 lives. They estimated in the first 2 weeks, 100,000 Rwandans had been killed.

When the Red Cross needed supplies, the supplied would be sent to them from overseas. In contrast, although Dellaire needed additional troups and support from the UN, Congress and the Pentagon were not interested in intervening further. Dellaire had a plan to secure football stadiums, and have the gaurded by many troups so that feeling Rwandans could seek refuge there. All that Dellaire needed was more resources and more troups to be sent by the UN. However the UN was skeptical of this plan.

<br>

### Captain Mbaye Diagne

One UN soldier in Kigali, Captain Mbaye Diagne, decided to take matters into his own hands. From the first hours of the genocide, he ignored orders to stay nuetral. He rescued Madame Magath's children, hiding them in a closet as she was executed. Captain Mbaye Diagne refuged many Rwandans in a hotel, where they would reside temporarily and he would have them picked up and taken to safety. However, he was killed when stopping at a checkpoint on the road. Shrapnel from a mortar explosion near his car came through the back window and into his head, killing him instantly.

<br>

### May 17, 1994

The Security Councel allowed for 5000 more peacekeepers for Rwanda. But none of them were immediately available.

<br>

### July, 1994

The Rwandan genocide came to an end in July 1994, lasting 100 days. It had only ended because the Tutsis won the cival war. Hutu extremists had killed over 800,000 people.

<br>

### Aftermath

Years later, world leaders who did little to help the situation, visited sites where many of the killings took place, and expressed their sorrow through speeches to the world. Bill Clinton himself visited Rwanda to give a speech expressing his grief. He stated that the US had made mistakes, but he himself did not say 'sorry' or make an apology. World leaders constantly explain that they should have done more.