The Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints is the largest group of fundamentalists Mormons who practise polygamy (allowing a marriage that has more than one spouse). Warren Jeffs is the leader of this church and a self-proclaimed prophet. The cult's main compound is located near the border of Utah and Arizona. It is referred to as 'The Crick.'

Three young boys have decided to leave the cult. One of them is a 17-year-old called Sam. His dad was physically abusive when he was younger, and one day started choking him because he wanted him to go to heaven. Sam has 10 brothers and sisters. One of the reasons he left was because he wanted to start thinking for himself and didn't want to live in the compound for his whole life. It was a very tough decision to leave behind everything he had.

Joseph (Joe) is another exile from the cult. He has two mums and 21 siblings. He gathered his belongings in two wheelbarrows when he left. Other family members and officers attempted to help them rescue another family member, Joe's 15-year-old sister Hillary. Hillary was taken to the local Youth Crisis Centre, but without any proof of physical abuse, she was returned to her father. Two years after Joe left the Crick, they received a call from Hillary, and they went to pick her up that night. Joe's sister, Sabrina, also decides to escape the compound, leaving her 4 children behind.

Bruce, another exile, had a father who had three wives. They had a total of 22 people in their family. Warren Jeffs broke up the original family by asking the father to leave town, leaving the wife to look after the children of Bruce's second and third mums. Sam, Joe, and Bruce ended up in a town called St George, Utah, which is where most exiles of the cult end up.

Sam, Joe, and Bruce eventually decided to travel back to the Crick to attempt to get their ID from their parents so that they could start a new life going to school and work. Sam enrolled in Job Corps, a place that offers stable housing and job training to troubled kids. Joe started working in construction to save money for the usual things that kids do - like hanging out at the mall and shopping with friends. Residents of St. George, Jeremy Johnson, and his wife Sharla, help exiles find housing. Bruce, Sam, and Joe are invited to live with them.

Kevin is another exile that had been out of the cult for about 11 years. He explains the origin story of the cult, their structure, and their basic practices. In 1890, when polygamy was made illegal, founding members wanted to start their own religion to continue practising polygamy. They believed that polygamy was never meant to be outlawed.

When Warren Jeffs took over the compound, he ordered all the adults to take their kids out of public schools. Boys were sent out to work at construction. People in the compound was so isolated from the rest of the world that many of the children were not educated with the basic knowledge (for example, how to read properly, the capitals of certain states, countries, and basic geography).

There was no recreation - no reading, no TV, no biking, and no sports. There was also no dating. When you were considered ready to be married, a marriage would be arranged for you. Warren Jeffs himself had over 80 wives. When he found a woman he wanted to marry, he would convince them that God had given him the revelation to marry them.

The structure of the cult was that the prophet (Warren) controls everything underneath him. He tells the men in the compound when God has come to him with a 'revelation' on who they are meant to marry. If the man is 'successful', lives life correctly, and is successful in both work and the marriage itself, God will grant him more wives. If the man does not have success, the wives (and any children of those wives) are taken away from him and moved to another man. In this case, the men sometimes end up marrying their stepdaughters as well.

Rulon Jeffs was Warren's father and was originally the president of The Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. Warren Jeffs was born in 1955 and was considered a 'miracle baby' because he was 3 months premature. Before Rulon's death, Warren had him sign all his rights to the UEP (United Effort Plan) trust to him as the sole beneficiary. All houses in the compound were built on UEP property, so he therefore owned everyone's property.

Police announced that they had Steve Warrens in custody in Las Vegas for suspicious conduct in arranging marriages for underaged girls and older men. He is now serving a life sentence.